Yeah,
boom.
And here we go.
Ladies and gentlemen.
Hey,
this episode of the Joe Rogan experience podcast is brought to you by audible.
Audible is the Internet's leading provider of audio entertainment over 100,000
titles of awesomeness available on audible.
And what is a,
what is audible?
Audible is essentially books,
um,
radio shows,
old lectures,
standup comedy,
audio entertainment,
and a fantastic resource for audio books including our friends,
Scott Sigler's,
uh,
wonderful novels,
fantastic fantasy science fiction,
doom novels and a Scott just couldn't be a cooler guy.
Nocturnal is an excellent selection from the Scott Sigler collection and a
that's available@audible.com and you can't get one book for free.
If you go to audible.com forward slash Joe,
you can get one free audio book and 30 free days of audible service.
It's just a fantastic resource.
So many fascinating books,
so many really interesting forms of audio entertainment that are
available@audible.com and it's just a really great thing to have if you're
getting on a plane,
if you're commuting every day,
it turns all that nonsense of being in your car or being stuck in a plane seat
to actually an entertaining experience.
Um,
I guess much like podcast,
I'm sort of like competing against myself with these things,
but whatever.
Um,
I ain't scared nocturnal.
Get it.
It's awesome.
Scott Sigler is awesome,
is awesome.
audible.com,
forward slash Joe and also if you have the whisper sync,
a application for the kindle fire HD kindle fire HD is um,
a really amazing little,
uh,
thing that you,
it's like one of those readers,
but it also plays movies.
It does a lot of things.
But with this kindle fire HD,
you can get this whisper sync.
And what it is is an application that allows you to read your book and so he can
read it at home.
And then when you get your car in the morning,
the audible version picks off exactly where you left the reading part.
It's really cool.
So a professional actor will read the book right where you left off a reading it
by yourself.
Really awesome stuff.
audible.com forward slash Joe we're also brought to you by onnit.com ana is a
human optimization website.
What does that mean?
That means we didn't have a better description for a website that sells cool
shit that makes you work better.
What we sell is kettle bells,
battle ropes,
all sorts of strength and conditioning equipment,
all sorts of health supplements like Alpha brain,
which is a new tropic nootropic is a cognitive enhancing.
It sounds like snake oil sounds a little fishy.
That's why we have,
if you go to [inaudible] dot com and look up click on the Alpha brain logo.
We have all sorts of clinical research that backs it.
We have a with references studies,
including our own study one which we recently completed,
an Alpha Brain Alpha brain.
I can't even talk.
Alpha brain clinical trial result,
a double blind placebo.
The standard method of scientific inquiry,
the way you're supposed to do these things.
Uh,
we did one,
got some positive results and when they're middle of doing a second one right
now,
all of it is much better explained at [inaudible] dot com than you'd get from a
stuttering comedian.
So go there,
enjoy a checkout.
The different foods and the different supplements like hemp force,
uh,
we have,
two different flavors.
Hemp force,
Vanilla Asai and hemp force,
uh,
Co Choco,
Maca,
uh,
both of them are really healthy protein supplement,
um,
alternatives when you're thinking about like taking a protein supplement,
one of the best protein supplements you can take as hamp.
It's super easily digestible by your body.
And ours is very,
very high in protein,
the most expensive,
finest protein powder that we can get.
And we sweetened with Stevia.
So there's very,
very little sugar,
less than one gram or one gram per serving.
And that's just completely naturally occurring sugar that,
uh,
is in,
in the plan itself.
Uh,
on at.com o n n I t use the Codeword Rogan and save 10% off any and all
supplements.
All right.
Mark Kendall from great white is here and we're fixing get busy hits music.
Jamie Logan
Experience Day,
Joe Rogan podcast all day.
Right.
Mark Kendall,
ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you sir.
Thanks for doing this man.
I really appreciate it.
Thanks for having me man.
It's awesome when I hear that there's a guy out there that's a celebrity,
the plays pool better than me.
I get very excited and uh,
according to our mutual friend Jay hell for it.
He says you're the best celebrity pool player there is.
That's I compliment.
Yeah,
that's a high compliment coming from Jay because he knows a lot about pool.
But I mean,
I don't have to be the best all the time.
I mean,
I,
you know,
I'm definitely,
I'm,
I'm capable of playing like,
you know,
a d player or whatever.
I can just go,
just dog my brains out.
But when I get going with my arm,
you know,
loosened up and I'm hitting balls for a few days,
I,
I can get in into,
uh,
my play,
my speed.
Yeah.
She don't know like pool player Lingo speed is how a guy will say he plays a
speed,
you know,
he,
he's got a great speed.
That means it's,
and it doesn't even mean going fast.
It just means your,
your,
your game.
There's a,
you know,
it's funny,
uh,
in pool there's,
there's so many different levels though.
It,
I think it goes way beyond like a player B player,
c player.
But I see guys that,
I can't imagine playing better than this guy or private.
We've got this level,
I'd like the bucket list would be totally happening and he has to get weight
from this dude and all this stuff and it's,
it's almost confusing how many different
and what wait means is for folks who don't know the pooling handicap handicap
meaning like say if a,
if mark and I played in marks and a player and I'm a B player,
mark would maybe like if we played nine ball marker,
maybe like give me the eight ball.
And what that means is like he would have to make the nine ball to win,
but I could win making the eight ball or the nine ball.
And oftentimes when you're,
you're seeing like really even big named guys match up.
Like I saw rob sy as match up with Mika Immonen that they play in rob sizes of
the top pro,
but Amica eminent had to give rob Waite and you know,
he gave him,
I think he gave him the eight ball.
Sure.
And,
uh,
people might not show up very much,
ran that low.
It might not,
you know,
when,
for folks who don't know 'em but 10 ball or nine ball,
either one of them,
their rotation games,
which means he played the one ball first and then you'd go to the two to the
three and then to when you get the 10 ball in.
But when with a handicap,
you could give a guy another game.
Like you could give a guy,
I've seen a guy like Shane van Bonin.
Uh,
he gives people like crazy games.
Like he said,
he'll give some live out.
Yeah,
yeah.
Too loud even,
right.
Yeah,
I mean,
if the guy can't play at all,
you know,
he'll give you every ball on the table.
Yeah.
Not yet.
That means all you'd have to do is make the two ball and you win.
Whereas he mass to make the two,
three,
four,
five.
Imagine this,
how good this guy is.
You know Cory dual,
one of the best in the world.
Shane gave him the five and six ball playing 10 ball just now up in up north and
you know,
it was laughable.
Like even Cory left guy,
I can't believe it.
He goes,
I guess I need the foreign five.
He beat him with the five and six he beat him.
Yeah.
What doesn't giving,
giving him the five and six in 10 volt like,
you know,
it's crazy,
but it really is not going to show up if he's breaking the way he does it,
you know,
all he's going,
oh there it goes my money and there goes my money.
But like every game,
you know from the chair,
you know what I mean?
So,
even though it sounds like,
oh,
Shane's really giving something up here,
you know,
if he breaks,
because that's the whole thing with him.
Um,
well people,
you know,
some say he just breaks,
you know good or whatever,
but that,
you know,
that's crappy.
This guy plays behind the brake like crazy good.
But um,
but that break is big when you get on that level of,
you know,
these parole level.
If some guy is breaking like God and get in shape on the one and all this stuff,
you know,
and another guy is a dry breaker,
but he plays like God to,
you can guarantee the guy that's the breaker is going to,
this is awesome.
Or is it got side lingo,
try breaker breaking like God,
what it's all about is the shot on pools,
the break shot,
you smash them balls hard and the balls go flying into the pockets.
Ideally if they don't,
he spread the whole table out and then you leave a lot of shots for your
opponent.
The problem with a guy like Shane van Boeing as he breaks so good that you know,
almost almost every break he's making one if not two.
I've seen him make five balls on the break,
right?
10 balls
and he gets shaped on the one.
That's the whole thing.
And,
and players complain about that and then I don't understand it.
I'm like,
why are you complaining?
Because this guy breaks good.
You know,
the answer to me would be work on your brick.
Don't complain because some other guy's great.
You know,
when you make it too much sense there mark,
anyway,
yeah,
you make it too much sense.
You got to give people the opportunity to just complain about shit.
That's what they like.
Well,
you know,
I complain about stuff.
I know this guy,
he's a fag.
Well,
one of the things that I wanted to talk to you about it because uh,
you know,
cause you're
such a really good pool player is there's,
there's something involved in like trying to get like really good at pool are
really good in anything that requires an incredible amount of time where it's
like the level of commitment that you have to have to get really good at that.
I guess it's gotta be Kinda similar to guitar playing in a way,
like the amount of practice that you have to put in the level and that there's
just levels and levels and levels to this stuff.
I've had different loves in my life.
I mean I've,
I've always gone back to the guitar because like my family was,
there's just so much music in my family.
My grandpa was a touring piano player.
My Dad is a jazz trumpet player.
My mom saying music in the house all the time,
but at the same time I still played baseball from the time I was eight until I
was 18 you know,
and my dad's dream for me was to not be the big,
you know,
star musician because he just thought there was no chance that that but,
but to be the La dodger you'd edit.
I mean there's a chance that that more than there was,
you must have played really good.
I can tell you no,
I really didn't.
I mean I,
you know,
I was a really good pitcher probably when I was like in Pony League I was kind
of known as one of the top pitchers.
My arm started hurting when I was around 17 like after three innings I would
have my dad come out and take me out.
You know,
usually that guy comes out and says,
oh,
how you're feeling and all that kind of stuff.
No,
I didn't wait for all that.
I told them,
you know,
put me on first and my arms hurt.
And again,
I throw curve balls when I was like 11 years old.
And everybody said,
Oh God,
he's going to throw his elbow out.
That never happened.
What happened was from fastballs,
my arm got kind of jacked,
you know.
So after three innings it was hurting.
Not to mention you have to be such a standout player to get scouted by some,
you know,
by pro,
you know scouts,
your numbers have to stand above the entire league.
I had two guys on my own team when I was in,
you know,
this is 16 1718 year olds,
two guys on my own team hit more home runs in me,
ran faster through harder.
Tiki know what I mean?
So my chances,
and I even told my dad this when I made the decision,
I'm going fulltime music and you know,
kind of say love you to baseball is I have zero chance to make it and baseball,
Nissan.
What's the true?
Did you really have zero chance or would it have to be something that you
completely abandoned everything else and just through your life at baseball it
seems like it.
I did.
I mean,
I really,
I could have played maybe a different position,
but I really wasn't.
Um,
I didn't have enough power to,
I think who's going to skip over the two guys that are better than me on my team
to go to men number three and let's sign him because he's just cool or something
to get better though,
isn't it possible that kitty dedicated myself and I,
and I,
and I do look back and say,
I wish I would have worked out with maybe some light weights,
maybe gained some strength and money.
Not really.
I learned this pull up.
So you know,
stuff.
It's,
you know,
PE,
stuff like that.
But I didn't do any,
I didn't really train.
And actually we didn't have all the,
you know,
the video and the instruction and the pros coming camps and all that stuff.
We just like go play and you know,
whoever had the natural ability,
you know,
he rose above everybody,
you know.
So,
um,
it's a such a different game today with all the strength and conditioning leak
everywhere.
Even little league,
I'm watching these 12 year olds,
they look like small professionals.
They all,
their mechanics are perfect,
you know,
um,
fundamentals at the plate.
They s they look like little tiny Perot's,
you know?
Well,
I'm fascinated by strength and conditioning programs now.
I mean,
it's one of the things being a mixed martial arts commentator and getting to see
the improvement that some fighters have had by incorporating strength and
conditioning programs and getting to see like how scientific they've become and
how,
I mean the,
the,
the different things that they work on.
Like I watched a video last night,
uh,
with Phil Davis,
who's one of the top,
uh,
UFC light heavyweight,
right?
And he was doing this weird,
uh,
exercise.
It was this balance exercise where they're like,
he's bouncing on one foot that's on a roller and they're throwing a ball at him
and he's catching it with one hand and throwing it back while he's balancing.
It's like,
you would think like,
what,
what is this?
Like,
what are they doing?
But they're working on foot strength and stability and balance and it's just,
there's so much science involved in strength and conditioning and getting better
at athletics.
Now
those are there.
Maybe,
you know,
when,
when I hear you speak,
I maybe there would be a chance for me to improve it if I really got into,
uh,
you know,
working out and stuff.
My,
my,
you know,
the singer that's been in my band for like four years now.
His name's Terry a loose and uh,
he used to,
he's been in martial arts for like 27 years or something.
You know,
he did Jiu Jitsu,
judo kickboxing.
He's worked with,
uh,
Baas Rutan Ah,
he,
you know,
he trained with him.
He,
he's an instructor and um,
so he's got to get me going here.
Well,
a great thing to do just for,
just to make you God mental body feel good.
I bet it really helps.
My nerves kind of get rattled sometimes and I think I,
it's because I don't work out enough.
I don't have a strict routine and I'm not taking supplements and all this stuff.
You know,
I hear your commercials about the different supplements and,
well,
I don't know if we have anything that would really help nerves,
but I definitely think that exercise exercise helps your nerves.
I know it does.
I have been a dead kidding myself to working out,
kind at home,
but I'm not like running,
I'm not doing it enough cardio.
I'm doing tons of sit ups and you know,
arm stuff and pushups.
It's just,
you know what man,
get an elliptical machine and just put on a television show that you enjoy.
It's a great way to do it.
You know,
just get it.
Unless I have an elliptical machine,
I put it on and I put fights on and I watched the fights while I'll just do the
lifting.
I just,
I didn't think about it.
It's just automatic.
I just,
I can't do it.
I'm gonna start getting into some courses series.
We just,
you force yourself to do it and then,
you know,
write it on a schedule that you have to do at x amount of days and then when
those days are over,
you'll feel the improvement and then that becomes addictive,
you know,
feeling like I need to be addicted to that.
Yeah.
It's easy to be addicted to bad things.
But,
uh,
being addicted to something good is,
it's something,
it's really difficult to force your,
just force your discipline,
you know,
force your body to go.
And like,
I'm going to be addicted to drinking fresh squeezed juices,
vegetable juices every morning,
and then taking a yoga class every day.
But if you did do that,
God,
the,
it'd be incredible.
Cause I'm very compulsive when I get into things.
I have to become the greatest on earth with it.
You know what I just like,
Eh,
I've always kind of been like that.
So,
and I actually had an alcohol problem.
I,
you know,
um,
I was a beer drinker and you know,
go ahead and throw it low on the food chain,
but I got just as much pain as some other people from the abuse,
you know,
oh listen,
alcohol's alcohol,
whether you get it in the form of whiskey or what are you getting form of 12
beers a night.
Yeah,
it's alcohol.
You still wake up shaky and you're all scared.
And,
and I,
and I was able to get away from that.
That and you know,
kind of do other things and you know,
help people that are struggling and just,
you know,
channeling my energy in,
in,
in more positive areas.
But do you find that like I've met a lot of people that are really great at
things and really impulsive and really,
you know,
just the type of people that throw themselves into the way that you described.
I'm sure you must have had to do that to get so good at guitar and I'm sure you,
you did that to get really good at pool,
but do you find it that's sort of like a part of your mind that can kind of get
sidetracked and fucked with a drug?
Like,
and then that becomes like the thing that you become impulsive
about that becomes the thing that you get addicted to that it,
well,
that's why they say,
uh,
they call it somebody that gets really addicted to a drug wasted talent because
they're so good at something and they're letting this drug of choice or whatever
ruin this blessing that they've received that makes them great at something.
And I was lucky to be able to get away from it.
Um,
but as far as the guitar goes,
you know,
I played since I was nine years old.
It's just,
I did other things too,
but when I became,
when I was about 15,
I was pretty obsessed with it.
Like I would go to the liquor store literally with it strapped around me.
Really?
Yeah.
I been playing the Acoustic Guitar,
you know,
playing Santana.
I was,
when I was 14 years old,
I was literally in a band and we only played Santana.
Wow.
And not even realize that that would be considered a tribute man.
I just go,
no,
Carlson and Dan is the greatest soul.
It's just play his stuff.
And uh,
but yeah,
I guess,
you know,
I've kind of always been that way compulsive.
But the difference with the guitars,
I loved it.
You know,
it wasn't just compulsive,
uh,
energy.
It was,
he,
it was because I loved music.
I've always,
even when I was a little kid and sitting by the high flyer,
whatever,
singing along to girl from Ipanema,
my mom and dad don't,
he sings in key.
He's like,
he hears it,
you know,
is like the melodies are the notes that are coming out,
which I've had this ear from my parents.
I mean they,
my dad had perfect pitch.
He can hit piano notes and could tell you what they are and,
and stuff like that.
So I have this ear,
I could hear it.
And when I first got records,
I actually,
that was one of my first albums right there,
the Andrea Hendricks experience.
And I got creamed,
destroy the gears and um,
the doors is that strange days.
And when I listened to that music,
I only heard the singer.
I literally wasn't even listening to the guitar was just singing the melody,
you know what I mean?
But then I started being able to pick up the chords on my guitar and I was very
young,
like 10,
you know?
No,
no.
A training.
You just learned how to do it on your own.
I took a lesson from a guy,
but if you only had one lesson,
I've learned from a lot of people,
just um,
friends of mine,
hey man,
show me that,
you know,
or whatever.
Right.
Uh,
as far as a true sit down,
pay the guy,
you know,
okay,
show me how to play or whatever.
It was this guy who was in this like surf band when I was like probably 10 or
11,
and he was teaching me like Tom Dooley and you know,
the stuff I didn't want to really be Tom Dooley hang down your head.
Tom Dooley hang down your head and cry.
He never heard it that way.
It's just an old song,
you know?
Um,
you know,
kind of like Jimmy cracked corn and stuff,
you know what I mean?
But I guess,
you know,
he had to learn that kind of stuff.
But I,
I just,
I was just an interested,
I wa I probably,
you know,
when I tell kids that are coming up now,
I say,
you know,
it's great if you've got a good ear,
cause you,
you're like halfway there.
If you learn how to read.
And you and you know,
you know,
all the theory and everything.
Plus you have the grade year,
you're going to have it up on just about everybody.
You know,
those are,
those are the guys.
Um,
but to have that natural,
um,
I don't know.
I have a natural feel for music,
like,
um,
and those are the people that inspired me to play or you know,
guitar players that just play from the heart.
They,
they play notes because it's how they breathe.
It's how they feel.
It's,
you know,
it's coming out of the pores of their skin.
It's,
it's from the heart,
the soul or whatever you want to call it.
But those are the guys that made me want to play.
I mean,
Billy Gibbons doesn't bend,
knows the way he does because it said it on a piece of paper somewhere.
You know what I mean?
So it's something you feel and,
and I've been fairly good at that,
um,
feeling,
you know,
notes and stuff and people have,
made comments about the way I play and stuff,
but it's just,
um,
you know,
just the,
it's kind of the gifts from the,
like I said,
from my parents and my grandpa and everybody sort of genetics.
It's a,
yeah,
it is it because I don't think you just,
you know,
it's not me.
I just don't believe that I can just be born hearing music that well,
unless it would
bled into me somewhere.
You know?
I think there's definitely some in just born talent that some people have.
It's just whether or not they pursue it.
And there's also that thing that we were,
we were saying the negative aspect of it is that same sort of the personality
trait that gets you to be able to sit down and really explore music for hours
and hours at a time,
which is what it takes to be a great guitarist.
Can many times manifest itself in addiction and manifest that same sort of just,
just throwing yourself at something and being completely engulfed in it for
whatever reason a lot of times manifests itself in either alcoholism or drug
addiction or,
or what have you.
It's so common.
It is.
Yeah.
I always kind of wondered.
I mean,
I just think an addict is just an addict.
I really don't think that music has that much to do with it.
But I think a trigger for,
uh,
you know,
like say a recovering addict or whatever,
he's out on the road,
he's in this band,
he has all this pressure from everybody telling him how great he is and
everything because that can become pressure when people are telling you you're
the greatest man on earth and you're the best player in the world and all this
stuff,
you kinda just don't want to take it serious and,
um,
it can drive you crazy.
And I think that causes some people to numb themselves,
really to reality.
So I found that,
I found that
in a few instances.
Uh,
this,
this friend of mine,
he was totally,
every time he would get close to being signed,
having a great opportunity,
he would just sabotage it with alcohol and he,
you know what I mean?
But,
but what he tell you,
I mean,
I could see it from afar.
I knew what he was doing.
He,
he was trying to sabotage it and because he was afraid,
kind of have the pressure of being out there in the limelight.
So the people are afraid of success.
Yes,
absolutely.
Absolutely.
But I just think,
you know,
it,
it Kinda,
it's mindblowing,
um,
that somebody fights their whole life to get somewhere and they get there and
die out over a heroin overdose.
You know,
I don't know what the analogy would be,
but I,
that was just one of my thoughts is that it could be that the pressure of just
being in the,
in the,
in the music world and stuff and having all this going on,
you know,
because it does seem to,
it seems as if it,
it happened like that.
You know,
even though you've been grinding in the clubs and the for years and years,
it's like all of a sudden you're in an arena,
an arena setting.
You got cameras all around microphones,
you know,
people coming up to you.
I do.
I'm just making a guess at this.
I don't know.
When you think why people kill themselves,
you know,
with drugs,
maybe it has nothing at all to do with that.
Maybe they're just addicts.
You could strip away all the music and they're going to die of a heroin
overdose.
Anyways,
I've done a lot of,
and I personally think that the environment of celebrity on that level to be in
a band like great white fucking gigantic,
huge arena band and you're fucking on every magazine and you're on the radio
every day and that pressure,
the kind of pressure and recognition,
he's totally alien for a human being.
I mean the only people that ever got that kind of attention in the past where
kings and even a leaders of tribes of the,
they just never got that kind of attention.
I just think it's completely alien to the human race and didn't exist until mass
media was invented until the beginning of the 20th century when they figured out
how to broadcast things and movies and then you know,
in songs and records and then music videos and what have you.
That that is not a part of human history.
It's not normal.
It's,
it may be normal to be the center of attention in a small group or even a large
group,
but those people know you and you're talking in front of them.
If you're speaking in front of a,
a
group of people that want to hear your opinion on things or if you're a leader
does,
those are all normal things.
But to be on a fucking stage playing guitar and 20,000 people are going,
wow,
that's alien,
alien,
you know,
a very shy person.
I kind of worked on that over the years.
But uh,
you know,
to actually to go out in front of 300,000 which has happened a few times,
100,000.
Yeah,
we played in front of 300,000 people with a lot of bands.
Like,
I mean,
you know,
like iron maiden,
who cares how many other people were there and you can play it in front of
300,000 people.
Actually believe it or not,
I was not even remotely scared about it.
I just went out until the handled it.
But if you put me in a setting like this,
like with maybe 10 people around the room,
then I,
that makes me nervous.
No,
I'm serious.
And I don't know why this is sort of the same way with comedy.
I mean,
I've never done anything with 300,000 people,
but one of the things that will make you nervous more than anything is going on
stage in front of two folks.
Two people in the audience is like,
Whoa,
no,
because you don't really feel,
it's just a sea of people.
I mean,
you're just playing,
you know,
it's,
you don't feel like all eyes are on me or whatever,
but when you're playing like in at a wedding or you know,
it's like,
Whoa,
man,
you know,
they're focusing in on my fingernails here.
And
it's like,
whoa.
You know?
I think that that's what a lot of the,
dealing with the pressure of the reason why so many rock stars can't handle it,
or actors or,
I mean,
I think actors,
it's,
it's slightly different because it's not a live performance thing,
but just the accolades that they're getting,
it's all the same.
It's completely alien.
It's just you.
It's very,
very difficult to ask a person to be able to manage something like that.
That mean,
who are you going to?
We're going to go to a psychiatrist or a psychologist data.
I've never fucking experience being on stage in front of 300,000 people.
And I actually thought about that when you were speaking earlier.
I go,
maybe they should have like,
you know,
rock and roll psychiatry have Ozzie go.
Yeah,
go see [inaudible] wife's running everything and just sit in the back round
night.
Yeah.
And you know,
my manager Jay was actually English and,
and he told me one time,
he goes,
Kendall,
don't even read your own press.
Don't believe it for sure.
Do not believe your own press.
And it's better just to not even read it.
Don't sit there and read stuff about people talking about a much feel you have
and you know,
or whatever.
And if you don't take yourself too seriously,
that's probably the best way to kind of cruise through your,
you know,
stuff.
Obviously you celebrate with your family and friends and,
and dig it,
man,
we just got this cool thing and you want to share it with them.
But as far as like,
you know,
taking yourself too serious.
I mean,
it was probably best to stay away from all that brutal worst thing is talking
to someone who,
uh,
it has moderate or good success in show business and all they want to talk about
is their success in show business and all the great things they're doing.
It's like,
oh my God,
dude,
you're fucking killing me right now.
You're killing me with this stupid fucking stroke.
You're doing yourself ego stroke.
Yeah,
it's a,
it's also think about that.
Think about the idea of reading your own press.
That's another fucking the alien thing.
The,
the alien thing of reading perhaps hundreds of other people's opinions about you
or something bad.
Oh fuck,
I'm going to choke this guy.
I have a theory about that too.
I,
uh,
I've,
I think that that is like snake venom and that if you're not exposed to snake
venom and you get it,
it can really fuck you up because snake venom is,
you know,
it's toxic.
But if you get a little bit of it all the time,
then it becomes something you're immune to.
And then you go,
oh look,
a shithead
negative asshole.
The thing about negative people,
and this is this is a really important point,
is sometimes they have a point and you can learn from them,
and sometimes negative people say things that you don't want to hear.
You don't like it,
but then you read it and go,
Ooh,
there's something there.
There's something there.
This is a point there.
You could use them,
but for them,
God being that person is so damaging to you to shoot them to the person who's
being negative.
Oh,
absolutely.
They don't even realize it.
They think they're hurting you like talk shit about a person me or talk shit
about you all day long,
but it doesn't change the fact that you're still mark Kendall.
You know you're still who you are.
You're still this bad ass fucking guitars.
They can't change who you are by saying something mean.
But what they do do is they change their very essence.
They're very energy that they're spreading out to drivers,
that what they're putting out to all the people around them to,
they're the people that come in contact with what they're projecting.
It's they're just putting out shit.
And that's a good percentage of people.
If you read their blogs,
if you go to their Twitter pages,
if you listen to their,
you know,
if someone has a negative radio show or a podcast or whatever,
what you're hearing is just all this fucking horrible stuff.
Nothing good,
nothing positive,
nothing encouraging.
And that's who they are.
That's the world they live there.
It's not like they do that and then they go take yoga classes and then they're,
they're kissing puppies and hugging people all day.
Then you don't pump out negative shit and then go out and be in beautiful,
wonderful person and go,
hey,
that's all just show businessman.
The real me is loving and kind and super cool to be around.
I just act like an asshole on Twitter.
No,
you're an asshole.
You know,
and you can learn from assholes.
You can get something from them.
But points and things.
Yeah,
little bit.
I look,
I've,
I have read things that are very negative about me that PR maybe totally unjust,
but I could say is it possible that someone else could think like this and could
it be like,
does it make sense that they could think like,
and if that's the case,
if it's defensible then I should probably work on whatever aspect of my own
personality that's causing this opening to be there.
Sort of like in a martial arts standpoint,
if,
if like if you're a bad motherfucker in Jujitsu,
like say if you're really good at Jujitsu and you've got a great arm drag and
you graded taking people's back and you'd choke people on a regular basis,
but if someone gets your back,
you've got no defense and you tap out really quick,
you need to work on that.
Like that's something that you need to figure out.
Like why do I tap when someone gets my back?
That's real.
That's a real thing.
And that analogy I think presents itself in the martial arts analogy presents
itself when you're dealing with a lot of different people that are critiquing
your work or a lot of different people that are putting things out there and
they can fuck with you.
I have a friend,
I'm not going to name names,
but he's a fighter.
And um,
he and his wife,
they had a huge problem because he was like,
there was negative,
uh,
someone's saying negative things about him and her on Twitter or on Facebook or
I forget where it was,
but they were just,
just,
you know,
just being an asshole,
just saying really mean nasty stuff about him and his wife.
But the way they look and about her weight,
she looks,
and it was devastating to them,
to the bolt of them.
And he would take like,
here's a guy,
he's a fucking cage fighter and he's fighting professionally.
You know,
it's really a bad motherfucker,
but this the words of some 13 year old kid word waking them up in the middle of
night fucking shithead.
Like,
that's crazy.
I,
I've,
I've been down this road,
you know,
with haters and not people that are just slightly negative or whatever,
but just people that just,
alls they do is go say you suck and you know,
you're,
you know,
or whatever.
That's what they do.
Those people,
and I've even,
you know,
as a band,
we've talked about it,
don't give them any energy whatsoever.
Nothing.
Just let them hate away.
Good luck with that feedback with,
you know,
I'm not going to feed back with somebody that's saying something that makes no
sense whatsoever and it doesn't change who you are.
It doesn't do anything.
I'm still going to be,
exactly,
that's what they don't understand.
They think that they're going to sort of define you in somehow and minimize you.
Not going to come to my shows anyways.
No.
Only my fans come to the shows because not like that.
They probably want to be you.
You know,
they probably had like a failed musical attempt and you know,
they look at you in this fucking guy,
simple bullshit music.
I'm tired of his fucking cords.
I'm tired of the way shakes his head when he plays fuck that asshole.
But what's really driving them nuts?
So it's really driving them nuts as their own personal fail.
When's your next album coming out?
Do you think Michael Jordan goes on youtube videos and talk shit about people,
you know what I mean?
Michael Jordan's busy.
He's busy being Microsoft example.
Winners don't have time to be fucking haters on Youtube.
No,
they just don't.
And it really makes you look bad.
It especially a high profile dude,
you know,
fighting back with somebody.
Oh you know,
listen,
I've made that mistake before.
Just thinking I was being cute.
Uh,
trying to like get the,
I'll show them,
but then you're like,
what am I doing?
Like why,
why am I showing them what am I,
what do what and where am I,
what am I trying to accomplish here?
But it's like what I did it,
I treated people that would like say mean things to me.
Like I would treat a Heckler heckler at a comedy club,
but that's a completely different situation.
And heckler in a comedy club you have to address.
I mean it's,
it's being forced upon you.
Were you ever been involved?
Uh,
really seen that.
I've seen a few comedians.
Have you got a guy going Nissa oh,
have I?
Oh my goodness.
How do you deal with that?
He just stealing people.
Like I know some Comedians,
they'll,
they'll say things to the dude like,
you know,
I don't know how.
Or do you just act like he's,
there are no,
you can't act like they're not there.
Okay.
What I came up at the comedy store in Hollywood and the comedy store,
the,
the problem with the comedy store is the benefit of the comedy store.
And that's that the insane people are running the asylum.
It's all patients,
but it's all the comedians run the place that doorman are all comedians.
The guy worked in the cover booth is,
I'm not bullshitting everybody know the guys that seat people,
they're comedians.
And then the comics also go on stage.
The only thing,
it's not a comedian as the guy that books the room.
So I mean it's,
there's no crowd control.
Like none.
So when you would go on stage there and you're also dealing with sunset
Hollywood,
you're dealing with a lot of people also that they have aspirations that are
unrealized.
They want to be famous,
they want to be an actor.
They want to be a music.
They want to be something.
And then here there are sitting in the audience looking for something wrong with
you or needing attention that they're not getting.
Like a lot of those people are fucking black holes of attention.
You could stuff them full of trash and meteors and everything and they're never
going to fill that fucking hole.
It's impossible.
And so they sit in the audience and the guys on stage,
they'll just,
they don't even know why.
They're just compelled to interrupt.
They're compelled to yell out.
Sure.
Most clubs,
like say if you work at a real nice club,
like,
um,
say like the Improv on Melrose is a very nice comedy club.
They fucking kicked people out right away.
When you do that,
if you're one of those black holes that just sucks and just you just want
attention,
they'll touch you on the shoulder.
Sir,
you're going to have to leave the pick you up and then they boot you out.
Let me tell him,
answer this.
Have you ever been totally just like booed off stage?
I mean just like,
Oh yeah,
yeah,
I've bombed.
It's,
I know Jim Carrey is still stories that where he literally,
they would not let him continue his show.
Yeah.
We use most likely it's because you suck,
but yeah,
no,
you know what he was doing his,
uh,
he got away from the whole impression thing and he was just starting to go out
on stage with no material whatsoever.
Oh,
you can't do that.
That's,
yeah.
I mean,
you can,
if you're,
some people can do that.
We do a show called Thunderpussy.
We do it sometimes at the ice house and the premise of the show is that the
audience will yell out topics and you will riff on it.
I've talked to like Improv.
Yeah,
yeah.
But it's totally stand up.
You're doing standup on these subjects,
but you're going out there with no material and I've done two of them.
They're really fun,
but the audience knows what they're getting into.
Right,
right.
If you're going on and you're doing a show,
and I don't think Jim Carey's that kind of comedian anyway,
I think Jim Carey's like a big slap sticky.
I think he's a very funny,
like his old standup was really good,
but he's more like big impressions and slap sticky.
And for a guy like that to go on stage with no material,
he got beat up because of it.
Uh,
it was actually in his bio,
it was a,
and it was someone else talking about the show where he was going out,
he was a cockroach and he's trying to climb under the piano and do with this
crazy,
you know,
like body contortions stuff,
you know?
Um,
and uh,
just Kinda kinda winging it because that's where I kind of felt comfortable.
He didn't want to become like the rich little guy that was just going to go out
and do these.
It's supposedly,
he's pretty good at impressions.
It's very good at impressions,
you know,
so he didn't want to do that.
So he tried to do something else.
More of an Improv thing.
Well that just means it didn't work.
You know what I mean?
He probably deserved getting booed.
Look,
I know that every time I bombed it was in mosop night.
Every time I bombed it was my fault.
Sure.
I mean there's been terrible audiences and I forget who had that line.
Like it's a,
it's a common line that comedians use.
Like,
cause like there's a saying in comedy,
there's no bad audience,
right.
That's bullshit.
There's fucking terrible audiences.
But you know,
if you go on stage and that terrible audience and someone else gets them,
someone else figures out how to crack the code.
I mean it just could be a really crazy Rubik's cube that you don't know how to
crack.
But,
but when you bomb,
it's your bombing because he eats your being unsuccessful.
I mean,
it could be a completely unfair environment.
Like it could be a guy like,
uh,
to be tree Martin.
It's like a real slow burn,
sort of a dead pan.
Very funny comedian,
but very low energy and he could maybe go on a show where there's a black guy
who was singing and doing back flips and fucking lighten his ass on fire.
Could be some craziness.
And then you ask a guy to do like real slow paced dead paper afterwards.
They don't get it so wrong vibe.
It's like say if great white,
um,
had to go on after like say an opera singer in an opera house.
It's totally wrong.
Opera fans.
Yes,
totally wrong environment.
And it's the difference in standup comedy then in music is like if someone goes
to a rock club,
you're going to see some rock,
you know,
you're going to see a rock.
You don't go and just see live music.
And it could be like a country singer followed by a rapper followed by death
metal.
You know,
you don't have that.
It's like,
it's very clearly defined,
but comedy is just comedy.
You don't know what you're going to get.
You could,
you go to a comedy club like the,
the store on sunset strip,
you're going to get 15 different comedians and a night.
And all of them with different styles.
Well
in Europe,
um,
we've done shows over there that are such a wide range of people blow your mind.
And I mean,
we've played with black Sabbath,
Bob Dylan,
this is on the same stage,
same day you imagine.
It's like,
okay,
let's play war pigs and going to,
you know,
stairway to heaven.
It's like Bob Dylan,
black sabbath,
Iggy pop,
um,
buddy guy who's a blues guy,
you know,
and just flow straight,
had a blues.
Um,
and people went,
just is nuts for Daylen as they did anybody else.
I mean,
so the people there,
they're just there to,
you know,
hear great music,
all different styles and whatever over here.
Promoters would never take chances like that.
It has to be scorpions,
Van Hale and you know,
everything in the same kind of John Dre or whatever.
This was in England that you didn't know it was in Denmark,
Denmark.
Do you find that I'm,
I personally find that there's,
they're more patient and more polite in a lot of other countries than in
America.
Yeah.
You know,
um,
the other thing is I did things there that I wouldn't normally do,
never do here.
Like go out in the crowd and watch bands and stuff.
I go,
it's not like I'm Eddie Van Hill and nobody's going to know me.
You know me.
You know?
So I went out and I'm watching like,
you know,
buddy guy who's influenced Hendrix and all these great,
and I wasn't really that familiar with him at that time,
but he went through this,
like this segment that was about 10 minutes of,
he goes,
yeah,
here's the stuff that Eric Clapton God,
and here's the stuff Hendrix took from me.
And Oh,
so he's asking for,
it was kind of reddit.
He's kind of,
yeah,
he was kind of milking the credit.
I wasn't really that impressed by that part,
but it is fact,
and I guess he kind of wants people to know it's fact that because here he is
kind of not really super known.
And Hendrix is,
you know,
God monster.
I,
you know,
one of the greatest ever,
and he was just amazing.
But he wants people to know that Hendrick's borrowed from him and because he
hasn't got his accolades that he thinks he's,
yeah,
he's going,
hey man,
if it wasn't for me,
there'd be no,
you can't use that yourself though.
Right.
I don't like it.
That's what I,
you know,
I was just mentioning it,
I'm not here to go on your show to best buddy guy,
buddy.
Guy's amazing.
I mean,
there's no doubt about it,
but it probably doesn't have the perspective,
you know,
to know that.
You don't need to say that,
man.
Everybody already knows it.
I mean,
every,
I'm not,
I'm not a musician.
I know zero about how to play music,
but I'm a big music fan.
No shirt.
Me Too.
Well,
you know,
younger even play though,
Graham,
I'm a music fan geek man.
When I mean my heroes,
you know,
uh,
five years ago we did a show is easy top and,
and uh,
their tour manager used to be our tour manager and he goes,
you better hook me up with Billy Gibbons.
I want to do like one on one and you know,
lots of hang time with this boy and uh,
and uh,
he hooked it up.
And the dude with the most soulful,
you know,
here,
here's an example.
Okay.
I don't feel worthy sometimes of of the response,
you know,
like,
here's an example.
I go to Japan or band goes to Japan,
we get off the airplane,
it's like 2000 people screaming and I'm calling,
hey,
we're not Mike Tyson.
I mean,
you know,
we're not like van Halen or you know,
we're just this little band.
Um,
but I understand it because I'm,
I'm such a fan myself,
you know,
I'm,
and that's what I was trying to explain to Billy Gibbons.
I go,
you know,
you've got to understand the memories you have created for me or like so
incredibly important.
I,
when I hear some of their songs,
I go the apartments,
15 years old plane waiting for the bus,
you know,
I mean,
I have visuals from music.
I literally,
a picture comes in my mind from hearing a song and when a guy's dad that has
that much influence on me to meet him in person and have them be soulful,
down to earth,
and you know,
he,
uh,
he emailed me that night and I didn't even get home.
I didn't get the email for two more days is like nice meeting Ya.
You know.
And then when Zz top played in palm desert,
that's where I was living at the time.
Uh,
he,
he goes,
hey,
come on down mark,
bring your crew and all this stuff.
Like the guy knows me,
he remembered me.
I,
I'm just like shocked.
But,
but I get fans,
you know,
sometimes I don't feel worthy of some,
some of the attention and stuff,
you know,
I'm totally grateful,
but,
um,
but I,
like I said,
I understand it,
but because I am,
you know,
you're a fan.
I'm a total fan because I have my heroes.
I mean the guys that made me want to play guitar.
Do you find it?
That's something that some guys lose,
like as they become professionals and then as they become like better and music
and become like a big time music guy that they kind of stopped being a fan of
music that happens with comedy.
I'm,
you know,
I'm not really,
I can only kind of speak for myself on that.
I,
I'm still friends with like a lot of guitar players that didn't make it,
you know,
I was just one of the lucky ones.
I think part of the reason I was lucky is I tried to put myself in a position to
get lucky,
which is by playing more and believe it or not,
it's van Halen that influenced that on me.
They were playing more than everybody.
They played three blocks from my house in the backyard.
Now Mani,
I paid $1 to get in,
you know,
the singer Roth was blowing a tube inside of this guy's drums and you know,
I'm going,
whoa man,
these guys are,
are,
you know,
I was,
I thought they were great and everything.
And they were playing cover songs and they played a couple of originals I think.
But what I was more impressed by at least at that time was how often they
played.
They played every single night.
And I go,
we got to do that if we're going to have any chance,
you know,
because my thinking was if we play more than everybody might have to play free a
lot,
but if our name,
you know,
we might be able to brainwash people into thinking they're supposed to like us.
You know what I mean?
So,
and that's what happened though.
It was that persistence.
It was that playing free,
um,
getting our name out.
Um,
we just happened to be at the whiskey one night,
uh,
playing,
during the week,
not even a big night or anything.
And,
and the right guy was in the crowd that lie and he came up,
gave us his card.
And before,
you know what,
we're,
we're recording,
we got air plague.
We don't even have a record deal.
I mean,
we,
our record deal was literally borrowing 15 grand from some guy named Fred.
Hey Fred,
you got 15 grand?
Yeah.
Okay.
So,
but we had a distribution deal,
so,
but this manager,
we had called El Nivon,
he was from England,
he used to work for virgin records.
He had signed Berlin,
he signed motley crew and a year before this and then they would sell these
bands off to big labels.
Well he got us on Camy t when we had no deal and no local bands were on Camy
team and west with no deal.
It was just unheard of and,
but that,
I don't know what kind of connection to you had did.
So it was just a matter of you being persistent and pushing it all the time.
And these guys saw,
that's such an important lesson for young people who are thinking about doing
something.
Sure.
Opportunity presents itself when you just fucking buster and dreaming and
dreaming.
We literally dreamed things and in used to pretend,
I mean we pretended standing in the living room like we were playing the forum,
the forum.
Good Nights.
Yeah.
We used to pretend like we were doing interviews,
me and my singer,
we used to go.
So amongst the band been together,
you know,
we guys naked when you're doing this.
We just made up things,
you know,
we weren't naked,
but we were,
uh,
that would make it extra fun.
You're kidding.
Yeah.
That could have been kind of cool.
But,
uh,
you know,
it's,
it's that pretending,
but when it becomes a reality,
you know,
like I'm six years before I was on the form stage in Los Angeles,
I was watching Ted Nugent swinging through this,
this arena.
And it wasn't even a possibility that I would ever be on that stage playing.
Was he on a buffalo or something when he was swinging on swings?
I forget where he swing,
like out of the crowd on this big rope,
you know,
wearing like leaves and do you know him?
He,
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I don't want to meet that dude.
Ted Nugent is in attendance.
You should have him on your show.
I would love to.
He passed though.
I think he thinks I'm a liberal.
Oh.
Cause I smuggled out of pot.
I think he probably thinks some,
uh,
and I'm anti war,
but I hunt.
I,
and I also,
I'm into archery.
Yeah.
And there's a lot of things that we agree on.
He's,
he's,
I think he's a fascinating character.
He's a deep dude.
And,
and you know,
when he'd go that far,
we,
I just mean he's,
he's kind of a,
I mean he is it a lot of ways.
I'm not saying that he's not,
he is a lot of opinions.
Let's just put it that way.
Well,
they're well thought out.
I don't know if I'd necessarily agree with all of them.
They're very well thought out on his side.
He's a,
he's got a lot of really intense ideas when it comes to hunting and conservation
and preserving the wild.
He knows a lot about that,
that's for sure.
I just think that,
I think he thinks if I had him on that I would attack him.
What I would do would be the complete opposite of that.
Honestly,
I'm a strangle hold one of my all time favorite songs.
It's one of my all time.
Like if I'm driving around in my car and I need some,
uh,
good jam,
I'll throw on stranglehold just out of nowhere.
And just always picks me up.
We'll check this out.
Five years ago we did a show with,
with the Ted in Canada,
in London,
Ontario.
And I stuck around to watch his show because I knew one of the crew guys,
I used to work for us and,
and he took me around the stage during the day.
He goes,
you're not going to believe this.
All these cabinets,
all these guitar cabinets on this stage are all live.
Like Ted is coming out of these speakers everywhere.
It's like,
it's not normal,
like the amount of guitar,
I mean these ego,
so,
so huge,
you know.
But I loved that.
And anyway,
so what does that mean?
What do you mean by that?
I'm not sure what you're saying.
Usually like,
you know,
you,
you have,
you're like,
I have two cabinets working.
I might have 16 cabinets up there,
but on the cabinets are these stacks of speakers and usually a two,
you put two and stereo and it's plenty.
How many are on stage total?
Um,
like a bypass up to like 16 cabinets before.
So there's 16 cabinets on stage for the whole band.
No,
just for me.
for you sometimes.
I mean,
we played a show the other day.
I had an eight,
you know what I mean?
It depends on how big the stage,
but you're not used,
they're not all alive.
Well Ted has everywhere he goes on the stage,
ted,
it will be there coming out of speakers.
So it said
it's,
she has ted Mann,
he,
you know,
he wants to be loud and it,
but it's not really normal to have working cabinets all over the stage,
you know,
you monitors and stuff like that.
But um,
what I was going to get to that I,
it gave me chills almost.
Um,
because I'm like,
you,
I used a stranglehold and you know,
fucking being a teenager and when that album came out and everything,
um,
but the whole,
Dan went back to the hotel and I'm on the side of the stage and he goes,
he's going,
how about that?
Gray,
white,
how about that?
Gray wide.
He's going,
could you feel that rock and roll spirit?
He goes,
they got that rock and rose period.
Yeah.
And he goes,
and I can feel that we're not going real spirit in the head and not here.
Yeah.
And he literally introduced the song that way.
He's saying that how we had the rock and roll spirit and he goes and you know,
and,
and he went into wing Dang sweet pin Tanny was like Bang Gang,
a gang barbecue Dannon and,
and then,
yeah.
And he did say that he did that for way longer than the album.
You know,
Dan,
get,
get a gang,
gang,
gang gang.
It was just great man.
That dude is so intense lot.
Yeah.
He's,
he's definitely a trip.
I saw him do the national anthem,
uh,
at a football game.
Uh,
it was on television because was fucking incredible.
I mean,
it was all just guitar,
a guitar version of the national anthem,
but people fucking sleep on how good he is at the guitar need to watch that.
Oh,
I mean,
it's a really amazing version of the national anthem.
just fucking incredible.
And the,
it just is artistry to it.
You know
you're talking about is hunting.
When he first hooked up with Jack Blades,
who's a friend of ours because he produced,
he's the Bass player for night ranger,
writes a lot of songs for Aerosmith and Motley Crue and he's done a lot.
He's a big songwriter.
Anyway,
so he made this band called Damn Yankees,
which he had Ted Nugent playing guitar and when Ted Nugent came out to his ranch
and uh,
Santa Santa Rosa,
within 20 minutes he had a,
he was boiling a squirrel in a pot.
Then he shot on his property.
I mean,
you know,
he's already out shooting and stuff.
I mean,
it was just crazy squirrel.
Yeah.
I don't know about that.
That happens at ferment
for comes off or uh,
yeah.
Yeah.
You got to skin in.
I've had squirrel.
I had squirrel recently.
My friend Steve Rinella cooked a squirrel that he shot.
It doesn't taste like anything else.
It doesn't taste like chicken or like all Gamey or anything.
It wasn't gaming.
Oh,
it didn't taste bad.
I mean,
it tasted good.
he knows my friend Steve Rinella is the host of this show called meat eater.
He's a professional hunter and an author and he knows how to cook game.
What do you get?
A lot of really cool guests on your show,
different walks of life.
That's really cool that you can handle all that.
That you're,
you're well versed in different subjects and stuff like fitness and
well,
I'm very fortunate that I can talk to all these different peoples.
It would be incredibly rare to be able to sit down and just have long term in a
long form conversations,
two,
three hour
conversations with a bunch of random people like that,
you know,
whether it's Steve Rinell or I've had David Lee Roth on or all these different
characters and musicians and artists and you know,
pretty cool man actors and strength and conditioning coaches.
And it's just,
it's interesting to have a bunch of different people,
by the way,
tell you something.
I wrote a Joe Rogan Song.
No Way.
I read a little blues,
uh,
Joe Rogan Song.
I hear it,
but I leave the room back.
Jill seems weird.
If you play in them in the room.
I can handle it though.
Now you can play I please.
I'm honored.
I'm just kidding.
Yeah.
You want to play it now?
No,
I just,
whatever.
I don't care.
Oh,
if you have it now,
he can play it now.
But now that you brought it up,
it seems like the best time to do it.
Yeah.
Don't,
don't chicken.
Look.
Come on man.
Play the song about me,
Dude.
Don't be announced in something and then say,
well,
I'm not going to play it.
Well,
I'm excited that you brought the guitar because I wasn't sure if you were going
to
Josie pissing match
from his head down.
I'm down
in Mexico.
Yes.
Shower,
pull the Ras.
You leave a little smile on your face.
His timing is impeccable and a time Mick.
And that's a guarantee.
Where are you going man,
with that
little gun in your hand?
I've been charged to get ahold of you for days.
You
know Joe's a pleasing man
in this busy,
busy land.
I am very honored.
Yeah,
but the worst song I've ever heard in my life.
Sorry.
Okay,
I'll play the faster your mind.
Hey Joe,
sorry.
No,
please.
That's awesome.
I'm just getting,
look,
I had to make fun of it.
I don't give him a haters,
any energy anyway.
It's just
when you sit down and write music,
do you have like,
um,
an idea in your head when you sit down and brighter,
you just start to draw ramen and like how does it know?
I have ideas.
I'm actually,
you know,
the past few years when I get a riff in my head,
usually when I'm in writing mode,
like we're going to do a record soon or something.
I used to not really be able to get that close to what was in there.
I've been able to kind of get closer knit these days and one thing that I've
learned over the years and that is when you have this energy and this thought
and this,
this musical idea,
whatever it is,
make sure when you're vibrating at that,
wherever you're at at that moment to record it.
Because if you don't do it the following day,
you might not forget the riff,
but it won't have the same energy.
That delivery will be way different.
It might not be the same rhythmical thing.
So it's best just to,
don't be lazy.
If you have this huge idea like at midnight or something,
just grab your phone or grab something and put it on tape so you don't lose it.
You know?
Cause I'd lost a lot.
That's,
so that's very analogous to comedy and stand up comedy.
It's the same thing.
So I'm sure as you have these ideas and you just have to jump on them.
Like if I have an idea,
sometimes it'd be lying in bed.
I'm like,
Oh,
I'm not going to forget that when I go back to sleep.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Wake up in the morning.
Fuck.
What was that?
I learned that the hard way.
I don't know if you've ever watched or heard a Rodney Dangerfield story.
Do you know what,
is it?
Historic story?
The way his career and stuff?
Well,
I know of his career.
I mean,
is it the,
is it like an actual documentary called Ronnie Edge?
You feel stories that we were saying?
Yeah.
Yeah,
that's called Rodney danger.
I'm not really sure what it was.
It was one of these a and e biography.
Okay.
Kind of Dubai,
but,
but he's just an amazing story because he,
uh,
he was a comedian and then he pretty much retired when he was 29 and his wife
was a singer,
so they decided to retire together,
just get out of this stupid music stuff,
you know,
or whatever,
and comedy stuff.
So he left the business,
but he never quit writing jokes.
He hated this.
It's straight Gig,
you know,
of beating us,
being a siding salesman or whatever,
you know,
uh,
doing siding for people's homes or whatever.
And,
but he,
so he never quit writing jokes.
So he literally writes jokes for like 11 years.
He just has a duffle bag full,
right.
Comes back.
But when he came back,
they,
they had like bill Cosby,
you know,
they had,
this dude was he himself?
Jack Roy,
and,
and they had bill Cosby coming up.
George Carlin,
you know,
um,
just,
uh,
you know,
they had Lenny,
Bruce [inaudible] had all these,
these killers,
and they're going,
Jack,
I mean,
you know,
your material is a little better,
but you're used commodity,
you know,
you're,
you
look,
we got all these guys now,
you know,
so he goes to this club and he goes,
okay,
I won't be Jack Roy.
He goes,
just pick any name,
just make something up and let's all this,
go with that.
I'll be in this other guy.
So the guy comes up with Rodney Dangerfield for his name,
right.
So he does this show and kills.
He just destroys the crowd.
I mean,
they,
they're just,
you know,
socks and shoes and bodies piled against the back window and,
and,
you know,
so he goes to this,
maybe this is the name for me,
you know,
and,
uh,
but,
but it,
it literally,
when he started out,
he didn't really know what he was doing.
You know,
he,
he had,
uh,
you know,
doll are,
um,
just all kinds of different wigs.
He did puppets.
He,
you know,
he didn't really have any direction.
He was just doing all kinds of different stuff when he became the one liner
master.
You know,
like literally all these jokes are constructed perfect.
He doesn't go one word off.
I mean,
but he does have to write this stuff,
but it's just an amazing story that the guy makes this huge comeback at 40 and
literally has this monster career and movies and you know,
it's supposedly the story goes when he,
when he was asked to do Caddyshack,
they said action and he didn't even know what the action meant.
Like he was so good.
Action.
Oh,
you want me to do the pit?
You want what?
You want me to do the bit?
Wow.
Yeah.
Rodney do the bit,
you know.
Wow.
Action.
Matt,
you didn't know an action man.
Well,
Rodney is a really interesting example of,
of show business.
I was working at a place called Great Woods is in Mansfield,
Massachusetts.
It's a center for the performing arts like concert place.
Right.
And I know,
did you ever,
do you guys sure.
When did you perform?
They went years shoot.
Oh,
did you perform there in the 80s several times.
Yeah,
I bet you guys performing.
And when I worked there,
that could be,
I guaranteed.
Yeah,
we did a lot of shit.
We played in 1984 we aren't two words.
Judas priest,
I'm pretty sure that hit there.
Yup.
And I was working there in 84 84 it was called.
I wasn't actually,
because that was before I graduated high school.
I graduated high school in 85 so I don't think I worked at great woods now that
I think about it until 86 or 87 my,
my keyboard player Michael Lardy.
Yeah.
He
is a like,
he's like an Almanac.
Like he could tell you the weather,
the time,
what day we played there,
the dates.
Uh,
I can't really,
you know,
but um,
so I can't really tell you when it was.
Point is I was,
I was there backstage and Rodney Dangerfield,
uh,
was getting ready and he,
all he had on was a bathrobe,
bathrobe and slippers.
He got to a certain point in his career where he liked to go on stage with a
bathrobe on you was like,
gave zero fucks.
He was like in his sixties,
I think at the time.
I'm not sure how old he was then somewhere around sixties.
But he was just so relaxed and so loose that he felt most comfortable on stage
with a bathrobe on and no underwear.
He just got like,
they would all laugh,
like the guys would laugh,
like his fucking balls.
It'd be hanging out of his,
uh,
out of his,
his bathrobe,
and he'd just be hanging out backstage or whatever.
Help yourself,
you want a sandwich come on.
And Kid,
you know,
like,
yeah,
super friendly and relaxed.
He's a friendly man and a sweet man,
but he really felt that,
they say he was a really tortured soul from,
from like his childhood.
Like his parents hated him and his mother and you know,
didn't show them any love and all this stuff.
You make a comedian.
Yeah.
And,
and what they said was,
is he was trying,
he was just fighting against this childhood with his materials.
He's told people,
all's I have is my act.
You know what I mean?
Like,
wow.
He just felt he was so wrong in his life that [inaudible] that's where he came.
All his material comes from that being wrong,
you know,
you no respect,
no respect there actually that no respect line didn't quite come at first he was
saying,
you know,
with me and nothing goes right,
but it was always jokes about how,
you know,
how wrong he was and,
and that's all this material stemmed from that.
It's actually a brilliant story because it's such a fighting heart story.
It's,
he,
he had to grind so hard,
harder than you know.
Then you hear normally,
um,
you know,
even when he got an Ed Solo,
he auditioned for Ed Sullivan.
Ed Sullivan didn't call him for like weeks.
It just tortured him.
It was like,
am I going to have a life or no,
you know,
it's like if he calls I will.
If he doesn't,
I won't.
That's how it,
that's how crucial it was because he had already kind of burned out in the clubs
he needed to get here.
And,
and even all the Comedians were that were interviewed saying,
if you didn't do Sullivan,
you just say you ain't happening.
You know what I mean?
Like you literally needed that show to make your name,
to get your name out.
And then it became Carson and Letterman later.
Now Carson was another problem.
Um,
he made a mistake.
someone on the staff of Carson stoled some of his material after seeing him,
like at an Improv kind of place.
Well,
Rodney wrote a letter to Carson and saying,
hey,
you got a thief on your staff.
He was blackballed.
That was it.
The real arson was so pissed off that he literally black,
but he didn't want Rodney on the show.
Well,
time elapsed and I guess the producer of the show and Johnny Carson and,
uh,
went to some club or something and they couldn't get in.
We're going to leave.
And Rodney Dangerfield was there and he goes,
I got you guys a seat.
And they came in and he,
and he apologized to Johnny Carson.
He said,
I'm sorry,
you know,
I was wrong or whatever.
And,
um,
and so he had him on the show and he destroyed,
he,
he destroyed Johnny Carson.
Johnny Carson was just in stitches,
laughing,
everything this guy said he was brilliant.
Yeah.
He,
he was one of the greats in my,
in my opinion,
one of the all time greats and a really unique sort of a way his,
his style very unique and great and movies too,
like back to school.
Yeah.
I mean he was amazing man.
And you know,
he actually wrote the idea for that movie,
uh,
back to school.
But his idea was going back to school,
broke it like a total loser.
And Harold Ramis said,
you know,
my dream was always to go back to school,
rich as hell,
have all the money I have now go back like,
hey moe,
fuck,
you know,
I'm,
it's cool.
Where's the chicks and stuff?
And so he gave him that idea and then they incorporated the two ideas and you
know,
back to school,
it was brilliant obviously once he was rich guy.
It's a great fucking world.
And then how about easy money?
Oh,
that was a great movie.
It was a really good,
I love kids,
smoke or drink it,
you know,
put a million.
And when,
remember when Kennison played the teacher and back to school.
Yeah,
yeah.
Oh that was fuck Kennison uh,
he,
he was an amazing did,
he was very big music fan himself.
He really liked to,
um,
in fact,
our producer of our very first album was Michael Wagner.
He did wild thing.
They had the video and everything.
Yeah,
he actually recorded that and uh,
yeah,
so he was around musicians like those Tennyson is,
he's,
in my opinion,
he was the greatest of all time for like two years.
But he's a great lesson to forget medians too,
because he,
he went from,
in my opinion,
being one of the greatest of all time to,
towards the end of his career.
He was terrible.
He just,
yeah,
it just became,
do you think,
um,
do you think that drugs play in that?
I do.
200%.
I think coke.
That's why I think that,
um,
you know,
the,
that's a perfect metaphor or whatever for wasted talent because if somebody is
really strong and kicking ass,
I don't think it's a coincidence.
And the guys doing a lot of blow now in his show is kind of going downhill.
You know what I mean?
I,
you got to put those two together.
Oh,
100%.
I'm playing the most consistent I've ever played,
especially,
you know,
since I've been sober for,
going on six years.
But
you know,
you feel similar from day to day.
You're not waking up in pain and having to fight to be normal and all that.
You're not going to do what you do at your,
you're not going to be at your best when you're doing this stuff to your body.
You're not treating yourself well.
I play more consistent now than I've ever played in my life from show to show,
I believe.
I mean,
and,
and I really pump myself up.
I don't go out to just entertain people.
I want their jaws dropped.
I want to impress the crap out of him.
You know,
and um,
because I think that if you're,
if you put that much effort into a show going for the pulverize level and you,
and you maybe have an off night in new,
only entertain him,
not else lost,
you know what I mean?
Right.
If you just want to go out there and just entertain people in,
play your songs,
you know,
let's rock look,
come on,
let's rock.
You know,
I just doesn't get it from me.
One of the problems I have is the 22 hours in between,
you know,
the show,
I mean,
you're waiting,
you're traveling and you're doing all this stuff just for this two hours.
It's like,
I want to get the maximum amount of that two hours,
you know?
I don't want all this traveling to be a waste.
Like I've heard it said that they,
they pay me to travel,
but I played for free.
That's a good way.
It's the hardest thing about like if you talk to any boxers,
they say the easiest thing about the boxing is the fight,
right?
It's like this,
the training and getting up at four in the morning and you know,
drinking rye eggs or whatever else.
She,
you guys to do that anymore.
And that drinking raw egg.
Yeah.
That's just in that movie.
But yeah,
I get that.
But you know what I'm saying,
is the preparations the most difficult aspect of reparation to everything?
It's even in pool.
I think.
Um,
you know,
Shane van boning,
there's a reason he's number one.
I think he practices more than everyone.
Oh,
he practices eight out everything at the break and you know,
shot making.
Well I was,
I was there for,
I've been there for a couple of his matches live.
Um,
but one of them,
uh,
where he played Earl Strickland and after the match we all went to the pool hall
and chain played by himself for hours.
I mean hours and hours and hours,
just pocketing ball,
setting up shots,
pocketing balls and just kept doing it,
kept doing it over.
And then after he got done doing that,
then he played three cushioned billiards by himself.
I mean he just,
he's just a machine and that's how you become successful.
Yeah.
Your attitude,
like that attitude about performing,
it's just,
it's so important and it's so important because that attitude of gratitude,
of respecting what you're doing and loving what you're doing and really being
enthusiastic about the performance,
wanting people to have a great time.
It's not ego,
it's not about your ego.
I don't really believe that.
I just want to give people their money's worth and giving my all like really
feeling like I gave them everything I had available.
It makes you feel like you got some self worth,
you know,
and,
and uh,
and plus you get people going,
Whoa,
did you see that?
You know,
and man,
I want to give them their money's worth.
Fuck.
Yeah.
Well you're the only guy that can provide the mark Kendall experience.
You are mark Hindle.
If they want to go see you,
you're the only guy that can do it.
Like I said that to my friend Ari wants and it's stuck with me after I said it.
I'm like,
wow,
it's so true.
We were talking about comedy and performing and he was just starting to build a
following.
And I said,
dude,
I go,
if you're an Ari Shaffir fan and I'm an Ira Irish beer fan,
you're the only guy that can provide Ari Shaffir.
Like there's another guy might be able to steal your jokes and other guy might
be able to try to mimic your delivery.
But if I want to go see this crazy motherfucker named Ari Shaffir,
you're the only guy that can give that to people.
You're the only one out there that's already should fear.
And he was like,
wow,
that's,
that's totally true.
It's totally true.
Like your,
it's your responsibility as the keeper of the Ari Shaffir Act to the Ari Shaffir
material.
And,
and you know,
and,
and you as a human,
you got to go out there and you're the only one that can do it.
And people out there are fans and they want to go see it.
And you're the only one that can provide that.
And you gotta kind of an already does.
But there's some comedians who don't like,
I've seen comedians go on stage and just completely phoned it in and half acid
trying out new material because they didn't care if the audience got a good show
because the audience should just be happy that they're there.
Well,
I can feel that with just about any entertaining,
you know,
uh,
whether it be a comedian,
a band,
I can tell when someone has to go through the motions and I know that fans can
read that too.
I never,
the way that we've as a band have eliminated going through the motions is
allowing ourselves the freedom to make new music.
If it wasn't for,
if I was just some old these band and we would have probably been over 20 years
ago because I'm not going to go out and just play once bitten twice shy once a
year.
I mean I need to be creative.
That's why it got in to play a guitar is because wow,
you can make up stuff,
you know,
and I want to continue to break makeup stuff,
and that,
that's what keeps me going.
Also,
we do a lot of stretch out jams and stuff that are different from nine to nine.
So I don't know what's going to happen before it does,
you know.
So that's the way I eliminate going through the motions.
But um,
you know,
I,
I think,
uh,
that's even for a comedian,
it's writing new jokes,
trying out new things.
Um,
we keep it fresh for you.
No doubt.
And I think that's an important point that I wanted to ask you about.
Um,
with,
when it comes to music with some bands,
they reach a certain point and then all anybody wants to hear is their old
stuff.
Yeah.
They don't want to hear new music.
Like there's certain bands will,
they'll go and some of them,
y'all do this,
do that.
And then they're like,
oh,
we've got a new song.
And people are like,
oh,
I get a new song.
I don't know if they're going to go up,
but that could be,
but,
um,
one thing we don't do that is bombard people with new music.
We're not going to go out there and play like 10 new songs or anything.
But why not?
Why do give them all of what they want?
Unless we are just going on a tour to play our new album.
I mean that,
that's one thing.
Or maybe just play a few shows like that we're just going to play the elation
record were,
you know,
or whatever.
Um,
but is that sort of a,
a thing that happens to rock bands?
They get kind of trapped by their past success?
That I don't know.
Trap.
No,
but,
um,
you know,
I,
I take it as a total blessing that we have those songs and when we play these
songs,
I still like playing them.
We're playing for a different audience every night.
Well,
it's not like we're standing over there playing the song for the same guy over
and over and over.
They would probably get old,
but we got different,
you know,
different response.
Um,
it's a different feel that night.
You know,
we stretch it out,
we bring the crowd into the show.
I mean,
we do different things,
you know,
but,
um,
I don't mind when I hear a sound,
the radio,
even today,
I get tingles.
See you know,
so I'm going out and playing the stuff that people want to hear.
It isn't a problem with me.
It's just I don't want to just only do that.
I want,
I want to incorporate new new things and,
and a lot of the people like some of our new stuff too.
What,
what is it though about it?
What I was going to get to is because it's so completely different than a
comedian.
Comedians have to have new material all the time.
The last thing anybody wants a year usually for the most part is an old bit.
Like sometimes people will request,
they like want to hear something again.
You know,
they that there,
that's a classic but they want it at least like 70% of it to be new.
You know,
they want all,
most is as much new,
stiff,
like a few classics thrown in is Great.
But the last thing you want to hear when you go see a comedian,
it's the same act in the same order that you saw five years ago.
That would be horrific.
It?
Well,
yeah,
if it was the same,
I mean,
even like majorly probe
bands,
I'm talking like,
you know,
well,
I mean just any band,
they go do a similar show every night on a certain tour.
Now maybe they not going to come back and do that,
give you that same look again next year.
But,
but I,
I've even,
like,
we did a tour with kiss and every night they were saying the same thing to the
audience.
It was like,
you know,
cookie cutter.
Yeah.
Actually,
you know,
it's like,
oh,
and now he's going to say this,
you know,
so it's a,
how many of y'all like,
yeah,
word for word man.
He's not going to mess it up.
Somebody made a video or a CD rather have all of Paul Stanley's inbetween banter
in between songs.
It's fucking brilliant.
I really,
really,
uh,
powerful in the sense like their live album,
the one they did years and years and years ago was the most sought after best
selling,
you know?
And some of those things that he said in between the songs became very famous,
you know,
like they call Jim thing.
You know,
I mean it,
it's pretty cool.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
Apes ace freely is actually going to be on this podcast,
April 23rd.
Oh good.
Good fucking,
I'm ready.
I'm happy to hear that because,
um,
one thing in,
I'm not going to take sides or do any kind of stuff,
but I really feel bad.
Um,
you know,
that they're not being given any credit from their former band mates,
to just write them off as hired guns when they were a part of,
I mean,
that drummer,
Peter Chris wrote their biggest selling,
biggest hit of the man's career.
Yeah.
I'm on paper that showed to just call them hired grenades that were in our band
a long time ago.
I understand that they're bitter because of addiction problems and stuff like
that,
but,
um,
you shouldn't,
you know,
throw your brother's into the bus.
Uh,
you know,
I,
I'm not gonna sit here and speak for them,
but I'm just saying that I feel bad because when I was a young teenager,
just about every one of my friends were playing air guitar to a ace freely,
you know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
Just a noodling in the air.
And I,
I just think he should get some kind of credit.
I agree.
Uh,
um,
uh,
you know,
I don't know the ins and the outs of their disputes,
nor do I Chris,
in order to why.
But I do know that,
um,
ace Frehley was,
I was a huge fan when I was kid.
I mean,
I think he was a huge part of the band during,
it's a successful years.
I think,
you know,
some of his songs and some of them is rifts or some of my all time favorites.
You know,
that if Kristen,
I'll tell you something,
you know,
imagine this Eddie van Halen.
You know how great he is when they first got their record deal and Rodney
Bingenheimer actually introduced them at the,
uh,
in Pasadena,
at the Pasadena Civic.
Um,
they,
they were signed by Warner brothers.
It was all going on.
Eddie goes into the solo and the end solo that he did was the ace freely solo
ran their anemia and renamed me,
me,
me.
He actually did the HV the cells come on.
I mean,
you know,
let's give this guy some credit that,
yeah,
Bro,
I don't know what it is.
This is the man,
you know,
I don't know what it is,
what the,
what the dispute was between those guys.
Who knows,
who knows none of my business and I,
I just in,
no matter what it is,
I just think,
you know,
even if he hate each other,
whatever you got to give the guys do,
just give him his due.
I mean,
still hate him forever whenever you're going to do,
but just,
you can't just say he was just a hired gun when he was such a,
you know,
as far as what a young teenagers,
they,
he was a hero to a lot of people,
you know?
Is that what they're saying now?
Is that like,
oh,
they're getting inducted into the hall of fame and they're just basically seeing
that,
you know,
I'm not quoting anybody,
I'm just saying that,
you know,
they wanted to just have their new guys,
the guys that have been in the band for a long time.
MMM.
Be there are,
you know,
they,
in other words,
they didn't want it.
The original guys up there playing with makeup on when these other guys in their
band had makeup on,
it was just going to be a circus,
you know?
Oh,
we got two A's for you.
You know,
we got a two drummers with the same cat thing and you know,
and I totally get that.
And they tried to do different [inaudible] for a while.
Remember?
Did they?
Yeah,
I,
I'm not really that hip to kit.
I don't know much about it.
Didn't try to replace Peter Criss.
At first they were placed Peter Criss with another dude who had different kind
of things,
different things that wouldn't make sense,
you know,
to have some,
now they don't.
Now they have a guy who plays ace freely and a guy plays Peter Criss,
which I know who the guy is his name,
Tommy Thay or he used to be in a band called black and blue like years and years
ago.
Um,
is there a break to where you can go to the bathroom?
Go to the bathroom now and just go,
go,
don't worry about
it.
Okay.
There's lots of stuff that I could talk about
the seat.
Ladies and gentlemen,
this is the problem with having a podcast like this.
A lot of people don't have the kind of bladder control that I've developed over
years and years of podcasting and working the UFC.
I make a joke out of it cause at the UFC,
uh,
Mike Goldberg,
my cohost,
he hates when I talk about this,
but tough shit,
that Dude has to pee like six times every podcast,
every a broadcast.
So,
uh,
I've developed the ability to maintain and to hold my bladder because I'm a big
boy.
Okay.
And cause I know how to handle my,
my,
my coffee and my,
uh,
stimulants.
That's the problem really is when you just start drinking shit like red bull and
stuff fucks with your bladder.
Um,
I,
uh,
just announced today that I am going to be,
in Philadelphia on October 17th,
October 17th,
I met the tower theater and uh,
as of today,
today is April 10th.
Uh,
the presale is going on right now.
If you go to my Twitter page that said Joe Rogan.
And um,
also this Friday night I'm going to be at the Ice House in Pasadena and it's a,
one of the shows that Brian has put together and I know there's some,
uh,
funny people that are going to be on it.
Christina Palicki is going to be on it.
Um,
Dave Taylor is going to be on it,
uh,
don't know the full lineup,
but uh,
I'm sure it would be awesome that ice house is one of the greatest places in the
world to do stand up.
And it's also the small room too,
which is a small room is really a,
a special room.
It's only about 80 seats total,
so it sells out every time pretty much.
And,
uh,
just one of the coolest places to perform and do stand up.
Uh,
somebody sent me this on Twitter the other day and I wanted to show it to you,
mark,
as you've gotten back.
It's a picture of Jimi Hendrix when he was really young
with his guitar.
Oh yeah.
I have actually seen this.
Amazing.
Yeah,
that's amazing.
Yeah.
Cause he played with like the Isley brothers and,
and uh,
you know,
he played when he was up and coming and he was playing with a lot of people.
That's a little Richard and stuff like that.
And uh,
so yeah,
he had a different look.
Yeah.
No one's going to steal it from that.
It's on my Twitter.
Amazing pictures.
You know,
you're around the MMA and UFC.
Uh,
are you a fighter yourself or you just,
uh,
fascinated by this?
Um,
well,
this point in my life,
I'd have to say I'm just fascinated by the sport,
but I've done martial arts my whole life.
I used to compete and I used to be a taekwondo champion and I used to brag on
teach taekwondo for a living before I became a professional comedian.
And um,
and I still,
I was still training because it was such a great fan,
big fan,
you know,
I had a lot of tapes in the,
in like the hoists Gracie days and stuff.
And one thing that blew my mind because I've always been a boxing.
I'm,
I was a boxing fan and you know,
then I started watching this UFC stuff and I was like,
whoa man,
these guys,
it's so intense.
And it seemed like,
well at least back then that the grapplers had,
I mean that was the nuts.
[inaudible] went to the ground.
You were done with,
you guys know chat was throwing there another pool term.
The nuts,
the nuts means you're stealing.
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
Got it down.
You've got no problem.
You're winning.
No problem.
We're going to win every time from the ground.
And that,
that,
that's what amazed me.
It's like I'm thinking,
you know,
cause Bruce used,
I used to,
there's no one like this guy.
How could anybody beat him at anything.
But then I wonder if an expert grapple or somehow got a hold of them,
but I don't think they could.
Oh well listen,
listen,
they could,
Bruce Lee was an actor and Bruce Lee was a tremendous martial artist.
Bruce Lee was a real innovator and Preuss Lee is responsible for the idea behind
his Jeet Kune Dough,
which was that you could take all the best aspects of all the different martial
arts and combine them together.
So in a lot of sense is Bruce Lee was the original mixed martial arts fighter,
but he had very little competition experience and very little real fighting
experience amongst elite fighters.
Like at the UFC level.
I didn't know that he was more of an actor and he was a,
a great martial artist is not to diminish them in any way.
Who knows if the UFC had been around when he was,
uh,
I mean if he was born in this era and you know,
the UFC was around while he was at the age that he would want to compete at,
who knows,
he might have been in there and he,
he might've been a champion,
but the reality
of the situation is what he was,
was just a guy who was a great martial artist who was ahead of his time and a
true,
true innovator.
But to say that a guy like Hanan Barao who's the UFC bantamweight champion,
who would be the guy that he would compete against to say that,
you know,
he wouldn't be able to catch Bruce Lee's.
He would fuck Bruce Lee up if they know things like this.
This is an interesting me if,
I mean,
if they both were,
if you took the Bruce Lee from the movies and the hen and morale from the UFC
from me,
you know,
like pull them out of a time machine and stuck them into the octagon.
Hanan Barao would have his way with them.
I mean,
it was just,
he's just a completely evolved,
fully trained,
mixed martial arts fighter at the very highest level of every single aspect of
the game.
It doesn't mean that Bruce Lee couldn't have reached that level as well.
I mean,
he was amazing.
He watched some of the fight scenes.
There was no one in that time that was throwing kicks.
The Way Bruce Lee was seems credible to me.
Amazing.
His movement,
his speed and also is insane.
His,
his understanding of choreography and the drama and excitement of what he was
doing in those movies.
It was just unprecedented.
There was nobody like him.
I mean,
I'm a huge,
huge Bruce Lee Fan,
but if Bruce Lee fought Hanan Barao and my money's on the Brazilian,
I mean without a doubt.
But that's just reality,
you know?
Sure,
sure.
I mean,
I'm going to,
you're not taking anything away.
Nothing.
You're just saying,
just stating the fact I'm a huge Chuck Norris Fan.
But if you know,
Chuck Norris had to fight the,
the elite of the elite in mixed martial arts as well.
I mean,
he would have to be in that game.
And train in that game,
get to that level and then you would see,
but you can't know.
It's like saying,
man,
if Tom Cruise played professionally,
God,
he would beat everybody.
I saw him in the color of money.
Imagine,
you know,
imagine if Tom Cruise had a place.
Shane van Bony can get away,
get away from me.
He'd get wait from everybody.
We probably can't even play anymore.
That was the thing.
Like there's only a few guys that have ever really,
really pulled off looking like a pool player in a movie.
Like Tom Cruise sorta did it.
He sorted it.
But if you see some of the shots where he's setting up his mechanics,
look a little bit Hokey a couple of times,
but Paul Newman and the hustler was not very good.
I mean it was awkward.
His,
his,
his acting was fantastic.
Brilliant at the performance.
But you watch him shoot things like that bank combination combination.
You would never see,
you know,
it was an accident.
No,
they told them to just knock some balls around and you know,
we'll just,
who's going to call that shot?
No one in history.
Ever.
It's a stupid shot.
Yeah.
No one would do it straight pull.
You're going to play say,
Oh,
you're going to do something else.
That he tried to make a bank shot and he didn't even realize that he was gonna
make a combination,
made a combination.
And then everybody clapped.
Like it was real.
But Jackie Gleason could play.
Oh yeah.
You look at Jackie,
you can run a hundred balls.
He was,
uh,
actually used to hustle pool before he even acted.
I mean,
he was like for real.
Well,
you can see here,
it's got a very gentle stroke.
Like you could see the way he's holding the cue.
He's a real pool player.
So there's only a few of those guys that have ever like played in movies and
looked,
looked legit.
Gleason could really play.
Yeah,
he could really play.
He was a,
he was a actually a hustler.
And,
and I know for a fact that he was a good player.
Paul Sorvino apparently can really play too.
I don't even know.
I,
I've have heard that.
I don't know how
Goodi was.
Um,
I haven't heard of anyone that played Gleason speed from like Jay Helford or
something who kind of would know,
but that that's all I've heard.
I know I couldn't get there with that guy.
Yeah,
there was a,
there was a few guys throughout history that have played like pretty good,
but everybody says that Jackie Gleason was probably the all time best guy.
Yeah.
As far as like,
and,
and I think a lot of that reason is because he was a pool player before actor.
Yeah.
That's big.
It's like w with John Schmidt,
you know John,
right?
Sure.
Yeah.
He was a golfer before a pool player that really,
yeah.
I mean he literally golf with tiger,
Tiger Woods in college and he's played like state events and,
and all this stuff and he's a scratch golfer.
So he goes,
you know,
any pool player that wants to play me and golf for money can get like strokes
from me.
You know what I mean?
It's interesting cause he wasn't offered before he was a pool player.
But it's interesting that he went into pool over golf because there's so much
more money and call.
Yeah.
Don't really have the answers for that.
When he met Bobby Hunter years ago,
supposedly he was working at a golf course.
Um,
I really don't know why he wouldn't go pro.
but he even said,
I guess back then when he was like,
I don't know,
17 or 18 that tiger woods was the best golfer,
but he said that he could probably never compete on the PGA level.
And He,
and he said that he,
he was saying that I'd not make a good,
uh,
John Schmidt.
Yeah.
Could he goes,
yeah,
tiger woods is better than all of us,
but I don't,
I don't think he could ever make it on the PGA tour.
And it's thought that about tiger woods.
Yeah.
He goes,
I wouldn't make a very good tale.
That's hilarious.
So he thought back then,
the tiger had no chance.
He just said he,
you know,
because his thinking was a,
we're college guys.
I mean,
he's really good,
but I,
you know,
he's not going to go out and be,
whoever.
Yeah.
It was just,
you know,
kind of the thinking at that time.
Obviously he's got tons of respect.
Beck
for tiger woods.
Tiger Woods is another perfect example of a guy who just completely driven,
threw himself into this one discipline and just had a dad who was also
completely obsessed by it.
Sure.
Just put all of his time and yeah,
when you look at guys that do things really great,
you know,
and,
and guys that are,
you know,
really good or whatever,
it's usually the really great guy that has worked harder.
You know,
he might have some natural ability,
which helps,
but it's with Shane van and almost every walk of life when I see somebody that's
just totally blows my mind,
they worked harder.
Yeah.
They put more hours in or whatever.
The perfect storm is the guy who's gotten natural ability,
loves what he does and works harder.
That's the perfect style.
That is perfect.
If you love what you're doing and you work hard at it,
you really are giving your maximum effort.
I mean,
what,
what else can you answer them yourself?
Pursuit of excellence.
That's the man that that is
and it's beautiful.
No matter what walk of life it's in to watch.
I love to watch somebody do something that's really hard to do,
but they just do it effortless.
Like in pool.
I just can't believe how I,
that's why I have so much respect for the game because I know how difficult it
is from my own experience.
When a guy gets up there and runs 200 it makes it look hard when I'm like,
you know,
killing myself to run 55 you know,
the other day I ran 55 I'm like calling friends.
I'm going did I just ran in 55 you know,
but it's like the get up and just run a hundred you know,
at will and stuff like that.
Well,
I haven't been aware that pool is an art form that can only be appreciated by
people play it.
Like,
if you don't play pool,
you're really not gonna be able to appreciate what's going on.
I,
I kind of have to agree with that because that,
that's why I was so kind of happy that a guy like you,
it's really busy in the business or whatever knows about pool,
you know,
just like somebody away from pool knows about it.
He knows what these guys go through and stuff,
you know?
I just thought that that was really neat.
You know,
Jay kind of,
I've heard him talk about you and stuff.
No,
I've known Jay since the 90s.
I think I met Jane 94.
Wow.
Thank I met Jay when he was,
um,
when he was doing CJ Wiley's big professional tournaments in [inaudible] 94.
Oh Wow.
That's heavy.
I didn't know you'd been around that long.
Yeah,
well that's when I first moved to La.
I mean,
I didn't know,
you know,
pool got,
the pool world that long.
Oh,
I was involved in pool before that.
I was,
I think I started playing in 1990.
I think that's when I really first started playing and,
uh,
became completely obsessed.
That's right around the time that I moved to New York.
Uh,
I had,
uh,
had a knee injury.
I couldn't work out for a while and uh,
just to kill time with my friends.
I started playing pool and just got obsessed.
What'd you play it?
It's a place called the executive billiards in white plains,
New York.
Still there.
Okay.
But now it's like a fucking disc.
I played in a few,
a few of the rooms that they're,
well,
I also played in a,
a lot of the rooms in the area.
Like A,
I played a lot of Chelsea billiards west in there.
I've been there west end bill years.
Is that where Kinky used to you?
I was funny.
He used to play there.
Me Too.
In fact,
when I heard that he was,
um,
kind of experiencing a little bit of a problem with the pills,
I was going to reach out to him and he died like before.
But I thought about it because he was doing an interview and I watched it.
I watched an interview with Jose Paprika on just some random side.
I was just not even looking for anything.
I just happened to see it.
Oh Man,
I want,
I want to see this.
Um,
and I saw his interview and he,
he'd been sober.
He,
he had some back stuff and he was taking a narcotics for it and stuff like that.
You know,
it got kind of caught up in it,
but he said he hadn't been doing it for a long time,
but he was doing,
doing well and I reach out to struggling addicts.
That's what I kind of do.
I just,
every once in a while to say,
hey man,
if anybody out there is struggling and wants to try to get sober,
I'm available to be your sober friend.
You know?
That's very cool.
That's what I offer.
I just offered my friendship support,
you know,
I have my own support groups and stuff like that.
But um,
anyways,
I was going to do that to him and especially because I knew him anyways,
not,
we weren't close friends or anything,
but I steered him around when he was out here.
We,
we,
you know,
we kind of hung out with a little bit,
and um,
and,
and I was really bombed that.
I was a little late on that,
but I didn't know cause he said he was not using and not,
not taking the,
he wasn't being honest.
Georgia maybe I knew George from the 90s.
I mean I knew him way,
way,
way back in the day when he was a pretty decent player sorta coming up.
But he was always squeaky clean.
It always drank water,
no cigarettes,
no alcohol,
no drugs.
But he had that back injury and manned pills are a motherfucker.
Heck yeah.
He,
he had a,
what was wrong with them?
Did it come from a car accident of a disc?
A neck.
But where did it come from?
I don't know.
Was it a car?
I wonder if it's from pool itself.
I don't know.
It was some kind of,
I had a back injury from Jujitsu,
um,
and it would flare up when I would play pool.
There's something about the position of being over a table,
like bent over a table.
Like,
cause you know when you're playing you kind of have your head back and there was
something about they have a muscle that kind of pokes out a little bit that I
have to deal with or you didn't land.
You ever tried deep tissue massage for that?
I've tried a lot of different things.
Yeah,
but I'm the person I've used the last couple times.
It doesn't quite go hard enough.
I wish he was just a little bit more power.
Right?
She's to go to another person,
got to find someone who hurts you or offer you ever get rolfing done.
Raul Raul thing is like a particularly brutal type of massage that don't feel
good at all.
Like bruises.
You will,
they are manipulating.
I shouldn't quote exactly they do because
there's a lot of dispute about what's really going on when they're doing it.
But what they're doing is essentially is absolutely brutal massage that relaxes
everything in your muscles.
I mean it's really unbelievably painful while it's happening.
Not Unbelievable.
You can believe it.
I mean it's not like they're saw and your leg off of the rusty hatchet,
but it,
it sucks.
But when it's over,
man,
you feel great.
I don't know how versed you are as far as the body.
I mean,
um,
because I just kind of go,
oh wow,
when I push here it hurts here or something.
You know,
I'm not a doctor.
I,
I mean I haven't studied the anatomy of a back or whatever,
but um,
this one person that I used to go to,
she did things to my neck that caused so much relief in my back and just by
working my neck,
it was like really crazy how the body works sometimes.
Like it's all connected.
Yeah.
Like you're working on one spot and I get a little relief right here.
Having a person who's really good at deep tissue massage and sports massage and
someone who really understands the,
the connective tissue,
you can relieve a lot of tension in your back.
It's,
it's,
it's such an important thing and huge amongst athletes,
like athletes go for deep tissue massage on a regular basis for that very
reason.
Just because it offers relief.
It allows the muscles to heal more properly,
allows more,
more circulation in the area.
A lot of things they're doing now that are just incredible or one of them,
there's this cryo thing they're doing,
we're athletes will work out really hard and they step in this thing that uses
liquid nitrogen to bring the temperature down like 150 below zero.
Why?
They stand in it for like two minutes and then they get out and the,
the,
the incredible cold causes all your vessels to constrict and when you get out of
it,
everything dilates and it's like up this massive release and flowing of the
blood and removing them.
You know,
I don't take a lot of,
you know,
I don't think really vitamins even.
No,
no tea hung up.
Before I go,
I was wondering if you could like kind of hook me up with some kind of vitamin
regimen.
Sure,
absolutely.
Now Cardio action,
most important thing is food.
That's something number one most important thing is eat healthy food.
Um,
once you've got the healthy food covered,
then supplementation is,
is a good second approach.
But the first approach should always be the Diet itself.
The food itself,
like eating healthy food is one of the best things you could do for herself.
And one of the things that so many people [inaudible] and things like just
actionables vegetables,
vegetables are huge.
It's one of the number one things that people ignore them when it comes to their
diet is fresh,
healthy vegetables,
clean vegetables,
eating cooked and uncooked,
raw,
you know,
blended juices,
just eating salads.
Just some green leafy vegetables are so important for your body.
And it's something that we just don't get enough.
I mean,
when you're talking about Fido nutrients,
you're talking about minerals,
all the different things that you get from vegetables.
They're one of the most important things that people are deficient from and
their diet being minerally deficient,
being nutritionally deficient.
A lot of it is because of a lack of green leafy vegetables,
healthy vegetables,
organic vegetables and healthy proteins on top of that once,
what are you doing over there?
Oh,
sorry.
What is that?
It's a pick.
Oh,
I'm writing and I wrote a whole album while you're talking.
I'm just kidding.
Um,
but,
but vitamins are good also to cover all your bases as far as like adding
additional nutrition to your,
your diet to make sure that you're optimizing everything.
It's not like you'll hear like,
oh,
you don't need multivitamins.
You're fine.
Do without them.
They're not necessary.
Sure.
You can live without them,
but you're not looking to just live,
you're looking to be fully optimized to feel good.
Yeah.
The best way also is to go to someone who can monitor your blood work,
get your blood work done and find out.
You might say,
well,
the doctor might look at you like,
hey,
you're low in vitamin D.
You're low in vitamin B 12.
You could use some,
see,
wow.
Yeah.
Go to someone who's a real,
a real doctor,
an expert in nutrition and expert in vitamins and right.
And someone who can actually do some blood work on you.
And then from there,
go to a nutritionist,
get get someone,
you know,
you can get like these,
there's a bunch of different,
uh,
there's a,
a company that we use,
I forgot the name of it because we just started using it with her.
They delivered healthy meals to your house,
prepackaged to do it two or three times a week and you put them in the
refrigerator and it's like super healthy organic foods and you premade.
So you try to eat organic.
I mean,
my wife shops at trader Joe's and you know,
gets tough.
It's,
I guess you know better for me and stuff.
So it's like you trailed off,
I guess.
Stuff,
whatever.
Well it's,
you know,
people like food that tastes delicious.
It's that sensation pad for Yummy food.
Eat a nice fat burger at two o'clock in the morning,
just dripping with oil.
I'll find out.
Oh,
so glorious though.
Yeah,
it's a problem.
Is that French fries tastes great now with,
with your diet.
I mean,
okay.
You know vegetables.
I know,
I know.
You like to eat,
right.
Do you ever go off that and just go,
I didn't want a burger.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
I believe in cheat days.
I believe in at least cheat meals.
My friend Mike Dolce calls them reward meals or earned meals.
Yeah.
Cause you're taking care of it.
You're treating yourself good.
For the most part I treat myself good.
And then,
you know,
the thing is though,
if I do do it and I'll go off and I'll have like some Krispy Kreme donuts,
I feel,
I feel like such shit.
Oh yeah,
totally
worth it.
I've done that before where I,
I'll have Mcdonald's and just swear it off.
Like I'll have a big Mac or something and it's like,
I feel so bad.
It's disgusting and fucking,
I just want to throw up.
I feel so horrible.
Like somebody kicked me in the stomach or something and then it's like I make
myself forget about it and like,
you know,
four months later I'll have a big Mac again.
It's like,
why am I eating this every time I say the same thing.
So during the process of eating though,
that mouth pleasure is pretty undeniable.
Yeah,
definitely.
That's what it is.
Is the mouth pleasure that,
that you're getting all your yet?
Let me ask you this.
Um,
one thing I've noticed,
and I don't,
I think it's because they do some kind of a different oil or something,
but French fries from like Mcdonald's,
Burger King,
all these type place has this taste and I call it kerosene mixed with dirt or
something.
This aftertaste is so nasty.
Amp camp and I don't know why more people aren't speaking about it.
Like,
do you just eat these fries?
Like they're good or something.
I'm tasting this taste in my mouth is disgusting.
It's not old school.
Tastes like,
well they can't fuck with in and out,
in and out.
It's got to go in and out.
It's always perfect.
Those fries are fresh.
They're um,
uh,
it's privately owned.
You know,
they don't have any freaky oil coming in.
Go off the Diet in and outs.
The best way to do it because you could also get it protein style where you get
a burger that's just on a lettuce.
Yeah,
I've seen that.
Family,
God or does stuff that's not on the menu and stuff like that.
Well,
the protein style is just,
they do let us,
instead of Bun it put lettuce on the outside.
They actually have a potato and they put it through.
Now
go watch them do it.
That's bad ass.
Yeah,
it's totally fresh.
And the fries have a completely different tastes
because of that.
I've,
I've heard the reason,
this thing I'm talking about where the,
the fries have this aftertaste.
It's nasty is because the FDA or whatever,
uh,
approved some kind of oil they can use and they reuse it and it's okay or
something.
It causes this aftertaste.
It's in more than one a franchise.
You,
you know,
so,
and other people I've spoken with had tasted it as well.
It's just they don't hate it as much as me.
Well,
I'm sure,
I mean most fast food is cooked in the unhealthiest oil.
There was an article,
here's an article that was,
uh,
in,
um,
on a abc.com and they talking about most French fries served and us the
restaurants are immersed in corn based oil,
usually considered the worst oil for human health before they're fried corn oil
contains copious amounts of saturated fat,
known to contribute to heart disease as type of oil is also low and model
saturated fat,
which most Americans need more of.
And in polyunsaturated fat,
which is in two large quantities,
can lower HDL,
which is your good cholesterol along with Ldl,
your bad cholesterol.
Oh,
did you hear when that,
um,
uh,
the naked chef or whatever,
like just tried to boycott Mcdonald's saying he's not,
it's not safe for human consumption.
And the naked chef,
he's just some one of these chef health shift dude's from England or something.
He's a pretty young guy.
I thought that was his thing.
It might not make it shot.
I might have the wrong.
Jamie Oliver,
Jamie Oliver's his name.
He calls himself the naked chef.
Yeah.
Okay.
So you know who I'm talking about.
Yeah.
And,
um,
he was talking about all these ingredients and Mcdonald's that were like really
bad and not,
not safe for human consumption.
And so they changed a bunch of stuff.
Well that's great.
He was successful.
Uh,
uh,
that's great.
I mean,
I think that,
look,
there's a lot of things that people eat that they should be allowed to eat,
things that are unhealthy.
I mean,
you should be allowed to go to Krispy Kreme donuts when you're going to Krispy
Kreme donuts.
If you think that it's healthy,
you're a fucking idiot.
All right.
You know,
I mean,
if you think you're getting one of those cream filled,
delicious,
sugarcoated monstrosities,
if you think somehow or another that's good for you.
You're a moron and that's on you.
You're going there and not go into whole foods and you know,
getting fresh vegetables.
But it should be able to exist because you should be able to go and get a donut
if you want one.
There's nothing wrong with it.
It's just a matter of managing your health matter of managing the input,
what's coming in,
what's going out,
what,
what are you doing for exercise?
What are you doing for health?
And then if you want on Sunday to throw a fucking ice cream Sundae in the mix,
why they have over or throw it in there,
I'm going to work it off.
There's nothing wrong with it.
It's not even working it off.
It's just a matter of making sure that the balance of your diet is healthy.
I get that man,
that's cool.
And the clash occasionally throw in some not,
but you could also make healthy choices as far as like what you throw in.
You know,
you could throw in some better stuff.
You can throw in some,
you know,
there's some terrible things for you and then some things might not be the best
thing in the world for you.
Like pizza with vegetables on it.
I might not be the worst thing in the world for you,
but it's not the best thing in the world for you.
Probably because of the,
uh,
with the oil and the grease.
And so it's a little of that.
But really,
as long as they use olive oil,
it's actually probably good for you.
The real thing is the bread.
The dough.
We cook with olive oil.
So at least it was great for olive oil is fantastic for the body.
You know,
there's a,
there's a lot of oils that are healthy,
you know,
fish oils.
Great for you.
There's a lot of oils that are,
coconut oil's very good for you,
you know,
raw coconut oil specialty.
It's fantastic for you.
This just,
it's just hard to really educate yourself on what's good and what's bad.
That's why like if you're thinking about doing it and I know you've got some
money,
go to a nutritionist man,
get somebody.
Yeah,
yeah.
Doctor [inaudible] you know,
I mean I've,
I told myself this year I'm really going to get into in just some fitness and
I've been doing tons of sit ups everyday.
I've been,
you know,
working with lightweights,
visit.
I'm kind of,
if I was in,
if I was a hardcore addict,
I would be at the point we're at now,
we're one foot's in the door and when it is out.
So I got to get serious.
I mean,
I really want to,
I don't care if I get in a bootcamp,
do something,
but I want to eat right and do all this stuff.
You know what I mean?
Why don't you try yoga?
I just feel like amazing.
You know,
I have done a little bit,
I practice some yoga just on that,
on a video,
like watching this chicken,
just doing stuff you're doing,
it's really makes you feel good.
Uh,
the stretching,
it's like really cool.
I was doing stuff for my lower back and it was like,
awesome.
I'm going,
whoa.
It's like it,
it hurts in kind of a,
you know,
you feel this,
this strain of the stretch,
but after you're done with it,
you'd feel the so much relief in your body.
I release the release is so,
it's so worth the pain for that release feeling.
You know,
the world would be a far better place if people just committed to doing yoga a
certain amount of days per week.
If the majority of people in this country,
just the majority of people listening,
does decided I'm going to do yoga three days a week.
The world would be a better place.
People would be more relaxed,
they'd have a better perspective.
They'd be more in the moment.
Better balance.
I mean,
there's a reason why he's skinny.
Indian dudes been doing the same poses for thousands of years.
This,
there's something to it.
It's,
it's hard stretching.
I was been told by the guy that done acupuncture from me a couple times.
He goes,
mark,
you need to move.
You need to stretch.
You need to walk.
You need to do something.
You're getting older and movement is so important for you.
It's huge.
Yeah,
you can,
if you're lazy in the sense of just being a couch person that just kind of
doesn't have a lot of movement to your lives,
that's really bad tension.
So I like to stretch a lot.
I don't even jump out of bed.
I don't even take chances like that.
Like this,
take chances with my bat.
My back's kind of,
it's a,
it's a little bit torch.
I have to like,
I do a lot of stretches
stuff.
And uh,
is it from a,
an injury or just from carrying a guitar?
Probably a little,
a little of that,
you know,
jumping around the stage for 30 years,
I'm sure that's no help.
When you play,
do you look down like a lot of planning now?
No.
Cause you pay all closing my eyes most of the time.
Actually finding your posture like maybe not.
Probably not the greatest.
I'm,
my back's not really horrible.
It's just um,
sometimes it goes out a little bit or you know,
I just have it.
I met some really some of the worst pain in my back and neck from reading or
from a writing from sitting down and this,
this pose where you're like staring at a keyboard like the,
the neck forward that the headphone pose is very bad.
Same goes to the whole balancing for me is how things happened in my back.
I can be making a sandwich and something could go on my back.
I see never from lifting.
I could lift all day and I'm fine.
You know,
he's always doing something,
some stupid thing,
but it's a balance thing or something.
Yoga,
get into it mark.
Okay,
buddy.
Yeah.
Tell me where you live.
Well after the show,
tell me where you live.
Don't say it on the air.
Okay,
well fuck your house.
You know,
I wanted to kind of mention,
um,
our website because when you go there,
you can find out if we're playing in your area.
It's called the official great white.com and we're playing in Hollywood,
man,
Eh,
this Sunday.
Oh cool.
We're playing in West Virginia on Saturday and on Sunday we're playing to
celebrate the rainbow bar and grill 42nd anniversary.
And we're headlining.
This place is legendary.
I mean,
you're,
the stones have hung out there.
I mean,
you know,
um,
uh,
just,
just every,
let me kill my sister from Motorhead.
Is there everyday like playing video games or something,
but it has so much history behind this place that I'm really happy to be,
you know,
headlining the event to celebrate it because it's,
uh,
you know,
for people who don't know,
it really is an icon.
It's a Brock.
It's like every band,
even if they played the forum,
you know,
they would go to the rainbow,
which is such a known legendary place,
you know,
um,
what,
where are you playing?
Are you at the rig doing it and the parking lot in the back.
And you can actually,
they're allowing people to drink alcohol for,
you know,
you can't do this unless this is happening.
So,
you know,
so they're allowing a,
it starts at two o'clock.
They're having a lot of bands that were from back,
you know,
even some that haven't made it huge or whatever,
but just like that played,
you know,
the club scene or whatever.
I mean,
they have a couple that,
you know,
like the bullet boys and,
and uh,
uh,
Tracie guns from,
um,
uh,
La guns or whatever.
But,
um,
you know,
there's a lot of local bands playing during the day and stuff.
And,
um,
you know,
we're playing West Virginia and the night before in an arena with some band,
but,
um,
we've got an early flight that day.
We're just going to jam out and celebrate with these guys.
Wow.
That sounds awesome.
That sounds really cool.
Yeah.
That is a real iconic place.
And,
uh,
the food's pretty good there.
And 42nd anniversary,
if you go there,
there's going to be chicks going there.
It's all free.
It's an error.
It's a 42 years ago.
Oh yeah.
Show up
free.
That's cool.
Yeah,
it's,
it's three because it,
it's just a celebration,
you know.
Um,
Sam Kinison brought up the rainbow bar and grill in his fucking HBO special.
Every,
everybody's been there.
It's a,
it was just kind of a known,
you know,
kind of known.
I liked the whole Hollywood history.
I mean,
when our band was playing Hollywood a,
I have so many good memories from that time because it was the,
the music and the scene was so electric.
It W it was,
uh,
you know,
I mean,
I played [inaudible] once and the guy painted a picture of me playing my guitar
and the sign the building next to like Youi Lewis and the news and Jim Morrison
and Eddie van Halen.
I,
I mean,
I have so many memories of just not even playing.
They're just going to Hollywood.
I used to go watch bands.
I used to go watch van Halen play.
I used to go just hang out,
you know,
and uh,
that's sort of half the fun of the rainbow is just being there and seeing all
the freaks and all the cool people and all the,
you know,
the people like,
oh,
there's that guy,
there's Lemmy from Motorhead,
there's all these strange characters,
walkers and all these people that had been around Hollywood forever.
I don't really know why,
you know,
uh,
it's just how,
you know,
it's right next to the Roxy.
It's just,
um,
it's just one of those spots.
It's one of those spots or people just get a good vibe there or something.
And you know,
that this trip is just,
the sunsets trip is just one of the all time classic spots in Americana.
I mean,
just really is where the comedy story is.
The viper room is,
it's incredible.
And in Whiskey,
the history of going back to even like days of the doors.
I mean,
er,
you know,
just to know that they played the troubadour or even,
uh,
you know,
early days with like Linda Ronstadt,
her backup band was like Don Henley and Glen Fry,
you know,
that was her backup pen and they went off and made the eagles or whatever,
you know.
So yeah,
it's to nuts,
you know,
the,
the history,
it goes way beyond,
um,
the,
the 70s in the 80s,
it's like,
goes back in the 60s and you know,
I mean,
you've got the doors,
look at how big that band did.
You know,
they're,
they're the type down like that.
You don't think of them doing regular guy stuff.
Like they're there to me,
you know,
when you're a kid and you think of a band and
like,
I know they don't drive through Mcdonald's like we do.
It's like they're almost alien there so that,
you know what I mean?
Why isn't that the mystique of that been sort of a road by the Internet.
Like there was a thing the other day were Charlie Sheen was a having a Twitter
beef with his ex wife and it was,
that's ridiculous.
Ridiculous.
But it was the,
that's been that,
that,
that sort of thing.
It's different now.
It's like it is different.
It used to be the one,
the guy was a big star that they would be sort of living up on a house and
behind these crazy games.
Now you play a show here on the Internet.
You're literally in two minutes.
People are watching or show a,
you know the show you're playing in France.
They're watching it in La and just got done with the show like two minutes ago.
Well,
and then they get to read your Twitter page kit,
get a kid.
It would literally be this much of an event.
It would last all day.
I'd go buy like Robin Trowers record,
go to my friends,
you know,
we'd set up everything,
man.
I get to speakers outside the window and listened to this album over and over
and over.
Now kids download 300 songs in 20 minutes before they go to school or in their
iPod or whatever.
It's just not,
it's not as personal as it used to be.
You know,
like it's more accessible.
It's more accessible.
It's uh,
you know,
I,
I ran,
I was in Conrad,
the article with David Girl or whatever from foo fighters.
Yeah.
If we fight everybody in Nirvana and he makes so much sense to me because I went
through all these things that he's talking about what just playing with guys
that don't really play that good and we're jamming in the garage and you know,
pissing off of my parents and you know,
and just going through that and improving from there and just getting better,
you know,
whatever.
Instead of people just thrown together with the songs written by somebody else
and all that,
you know,
it just,
the,
some of the human element has been,
that's my only complaint and it's not really a complaint.
It's just,
I just prefer that people play music and not machines.
You know what I mean?
I know what you're saying.
Yeah.
Well,
there's also the experience of going to the record store and looking at the
album art and take it home.
And I love that.
There's definitely something missing in my driving
200 miles or 150 miles to do a photo shoot when I'm going to be the size of an
ant on,
on,
you know,
microchip.
Yeah.
But or whatever.
But you know,
it's not really complaining.
My whole thing is I just want to get our music to the people the best way I can.
And I,
if you know your way around the Internet,
you can,
you can get that done.
And we just got done up this big monster cruise and you know,
30 bands on this big ship and we went and played on an island and you know,
it was like a,
it was great.
You know,
so I'm,
you know,
I'm not bitter or anything.
I know things are different.
It's a really difficult on major labels,
you know,
because we can go record our next Elmo,
your house and your computer.
Yeah.
You know,
that puts a lot of power in the artist's hands though.
And it also puts a lot of power in their ability to promote themselves.
All they need is the Internet now.
Exactly.
When all of those other closed off avenue was like,
we were talking about getting on the Ed Sullivan show was everything to a guy
like Rodney Dangerfield.
He couldn't get on the Ed Sullivan show.
You were fucked today for a comic,
especially,
boy,
you don't need that at all.
I mean,
my friends who have become from the Internet,
like Joey Diaz
and Ari's fear and doc and Trostle,
they've only had the internet.
The Internet is all they ever need it,
but all they had a neat,
all they needed was talent and an avenue in my days,
staple gun and the posters and sunset boulevard
to get people to come out.
And then they had to see the poster will be excited by it.
Like,
hmm.
That comes by and they put it over ours.
Oh yeah,
you gotta go.
It was class.
The wars of posters.
It's still the wars.
Yeah.
Well there's Internet wars now.
You know,
there's,
there's definitely a lot of that.
There's still a lot of fucking morons out there when it comes to that kind of
stuff.
But,
but uh,
I think it's definitely a better time as far as putting the power in the hands
of the artists and these people that are the normal cabal that we're controlling
the music industry.
They've or they've lost a lot of their power,
right?
Oh yeah.
And you know,
the difference now is we don't need millions of dollars to,
to record and,
and all that kind of promotion.
And that's why that they're,
the major labels are suffering a bit.
And yeah,
where the power comes in is we're no,
no longer are we just getting our little points,
you know,
where they're taking,
we make $1 million and the record company gets,
you know,
900 and whatever.
And you know,
they throw our crumbs enough crumbs to where we don't like go away.
But you know,
but people don't realize that for most folks they thought they'd have no idea.
Like how bad the deals were at span.
Haylage Dale was
amazingly bad and they even speak about it on the Internet.
You can go on and they're sit together and they were actually interviewing each
other about the old days.
You know,
people think we're the bitching rock stars,
but we are,
we were literally broke there.
They said that their checks per week,
this is during the first album where $88 and 83 cents or something and they were
selling millions of,
okay,
here's the funny part.
They got off this tour and,
and the record company said you owe us $2 million.
And he goes,
okay,
let me get this straight.
So if we do 10 tours and sell 20 million records,
we're going to owe you $20 million.
It's just from all the loans and the,
you know,
the first coming out of the gate.
But um,
well it's also just a corrupt system that has too much power.
It's corrupt and you know,
the being the artist when you don't have your own representation and,
and you know,
you just want to do anything to break out of this club scene.
You know,
you want to be a big band on big tours and so you,
they take bad deals.
You know,
a lot of,
a lot of bands have done that.
You know,
they've done successful with their album sales,
but their business side of is really horrid.
Yeah.
That's also the difference between a business person and an artist.
Like a lot of artists are impulsive and they're just not that good at things
like that.
They're not that good at business.
And I'm one of them,
you know,
our deal wasn't great either.
Yeah,
no,
but
we've kind of made up for,
that was in our whole career,
but at the beginning it wasn't that great.
But
well it Santa,
it always starts off.
Nobody ever says,
oh,
we've got an awesome deal right out of the gate.
And we're very fortunate to have an ethical record company right now,
which is,
you talk about the fucking scoundrels that signed you.
But I mean that's also,
you think about a music company.
How many people did they sign?
They might sign 101 of them might become great white.
You know,
there's,
there's a lot of failure involved on their end to prognostication fell down.
That's what they call the write offs.
You know,
the write up bands,
but yeah.
Yeah.
But for a band that successful,
the,
the reality behind it.
Did you ever read that piece that Courtney love wrote on the,
um,
the music business?
She wrote a pretty incredible piece about explaining the expenses and how much
it actually costs and what had artists actually gets paid and how much the
studio gets paid and how they go about saying how much things are worth.
I haven't read the piece,
but I'm glad she wrote something like that because it was school,
the audience and you know,
yeah.
It's a product that's not their business.
Pretty incredible stuff getting,
yeah.
Well there's a little bit of that,
but it's also the educational
people will understand that,
you know,
we work really hard and we're not just walking around,
a zillionaire.
Yeah.
Were you bummed out when the whole Napster thing came along and people started
downloading MP three s and it just almost immediately sort of took the wind out
of the sails of a records?
MMM.
You know,
I was bummed out even before that a little bit.
But you know,
I know
me,
like I were talking about earlier,
that I'm a fan of music and I like to support the artists.
I go out and buy their albums.
You know,
I want the artwork,
I want to know who wrote the songs.
I want to know where they recorded this album.
I,
you know,
I just think that's part of it and it's what makes the world go round in music
is to support the artists.
So I go out and buy a Zz top CD and you know,
but when somebody comes up and go,
hey man,
I just got your new album,
I copied it from my friend.
It's like,
well thanks.
You know,
at least he's going to maybe give me some feedback and if he likes it or not or
hopefully he'll go see a live,
you know,
live or whatever.
But yeah.
Um,
I dunno man.
It is what,
I'm not going to say that that for it is what it is,
but it is what it is.
I mean,
we were changing,
the world is changing around us.
Technology is forcing us to change and we have to adapt.
But the most important thing is you're still creating,
you're still doing what you love,
you still doing what he's doing.
And then the commerce aspect of it has to morph and has to morph to accommodate
this new environment that we live in.
But the environment is so beneficial in so many other ways.
It's just,
it just is what it is.
It has to change.
There's no way you're not going to have the world change
when something like the Internet comes along.
So all of these other way.
But the,
I think the benefits way outweigh the negatives in my opinion.
Definitely.
And our fans are loyal to,
I mean we go over to Sweden or you know,
uh,
Switzerland or whatever and they're all there in front of the stage,
you know,
so,
so we,
we are blessed in that way.
I mean,
you know,
no matter what happens in the industry,
our fans have always hung,
you know,
so it's like,
well that's cause you guys appreciate it.
I'm sure that has a lot to do with it.
We are grateful for our fans.
And I always tell them that.
And you know,
in the,
in the days when we were playing arenas every night it's very difficult,
you know,
that the constructed meet and greets,
we can only meet a few and you really can't go out and say,
hey,
you know,
invite 20,000 people back stitching to pay for the party,
you know.
But we've really taken advantage of,
of being able to hear their stories.
Man.
I mean I'm talking like stories that I don't remember.
I mean,
you know,
people doing my laundry and it gave me a ride here or you know,
they were in this certain place or this guy got married to this song or you
know,
uh,
it got laid because you know that your song,
this one or you know what I mean?
It just,
the stories are endless.
And,
and how you personally affected these pieces?
If our music is involved,
the people's life on like that because I have a can,
I can relay it because like I was saying earlier,
I literally have visuals when I hear certain songs,
you know,
like I remember where I was,
how old I was,
what I was doing,
you know,
almost like the smell that was in the air practically.
You know.
And so when people come up and have a similar story about music that,
that my band was involved in,
it's like you have to feel like that's a pretty uh,
tall compliment,
you know,
to,
just be involved with them.
Absolutely.
Mark Handle.
You're an awesome guy,
man.
Thank you very much for doing this has been great having you on.
Thanks for having me.
We're going to play some pool now,
ladies and gentlemen.
Yeah.
But very exciting.
We got to do this again sometime.
Yeah,
I'd love to me I'm thanks for an official great white is the uh,
the website,
the official grey white tie,
Tom and a.com in our Facebook is a great white band.
And Mark Kendall underscore GW is a the a Twitter page where you can get ahold
of mark.
Yeah.K ,
e n d a.
L.
L underscore GW very much,
sir.
Thank you everybody for tuning into the podcast.
We'll be back.
Uh,
we'll actually be back tomorrow.
We'll be back tomorrow with a one of the cofounders of reddit.
Um,
his name is Alex.
How he say the last name?
Oh,
honey.
N o.
H.
A N.
I a n o honey and I give that is must be Alex Ohanian,
uh,
one of the co founders of Reddit.
He'll be on tomorrow and then next week,
next week.
Lots and lots and lots of guests,
lots and lots of guests that week after that.
So we'll see you guys tomorrow.
Thanks to audible.com go to audible.com forward slash Joe four a free audio book
and 30 free days of audible service.
And thanks also to [inaudible] dot com that's o n N.
I t.
Use the code word Rogan and save 10% off any and all supplements.
Much love my friends.
See You tomorrow.
Okay.